[[page 1]]
Manual Dominions 6
Illwinter Game Design  (revision 2)
Introduction 6
  A Short History of Dominions 6
  About The Creation of Dominions 4 7
  About the Creation of Dominions 5 9
  About the Creation of Dominions 6 11
    Major Changes in Dominions 6 12
  Authors Note 12
The Basics 13
    Dominions Random Number (DRN) 13
      Probabilities in Dominions 6 13
  The Interface 14
    Starting a Game 14
    Creating a new game 14
    Choosing an Age 14
    Choosing participants 15
    Disciple games 15
    Creating Pretender 16
    Game settings 16
      Score graphs 16
      Master password 16
      Limited unique artifact forging rate 16
      Limited legendary spell research rate 16
      Renaming 16
      Cheat prevention 17
    Throne game settings 17
      Cataclysm 17
      Throne settings 17
    Game Tools 18
  Playing a multiplayer game 18
    Playing a hotseat game 18
    Playing a network game 18
  Playing the Game 18
    Basic Game Functions 18
  The Map 20
    Province attributes 21
      Terrain 21
      Population 22
      Income 22
      Resources 22
      Recruitment Points 22
      Dominion 23
      Capsule screen 23
      Unrest 23
      Supplies 23
      Supply Usage 23
        Starvation 24
      Defense 24
      Corpses 24
      Dominion scales 24
    National summary 24
      Magic gem inventory 24
    Forts 25
      Fortress types 25
      Admin 25
      Defense 25
      Supply 25
      Castle Guards and Wall Defenders 26
      Fortress statistics 26
      How forts collect resources 26
    Temples 28
    Laboratories 28
    Magic Sites 28
    Province Defense 29
    Unrest 29
    Mercenaries 29
    Scouting and Scrying 30
  AI Opponents 30
The Pretender 30
  Creating a Pretender 31
    Physical form 31
      Immortal Pretenders 31
      Immobile Pretenders 31
      Dragon Pretenders 31
      Trinities 32
    Magic 32
    Divine Magic 32
    Bless Effects 32
    Dominion 34
      Scales 34
    The Awakening 36
    Pretender death 36
      Death of Immortal Pretenders 36
      Call God 36
    Automatic Bless Effects 37
Units 37
    Basic attributes 38
    Special abilities 38
    Unit classes 40
    Additional abilities 40
    XP: Experience points 41
    Heroic abilities 41
    Afflictions 41
1
[[page 2]]
Recruiting units 42
    Recruitment costs 42
      Recruitment restrictions 42
  Army Setup 43
    Garrison units 43
    Squads 43
    Battle position 44
    Battle Orders 44
      General orders 44
      Target orders 45
    Commander orders 45
      Specific orders 46
      General orders 46
  Unit Inventories 46
    Magic gem inventory 46
Movement 47
  General rules governing movement 47
  Initiation of combat. 49
  Orders 50
      Move 50
      Sneak 50
      Patrol 50
      Defend 51
      Move and Patrol 51
      Blood Hunt 51
      Break Siege 52
      Maintain Siege 52
      Storm Castle 52
      Assassinate 52
        Scale Walls 52
        Mounts 52
      Seduction 53
        Dream Seduction 53
        Corruption 53
        Lure of the sirens 53
      Preach 53
      Pillage 53
      Raid 53
      Reanimate 53
        Manikin Reanimation 54
      Contact Allies 54
      Perform Blood Sacrifice 54
      Capture Slaves 54
      Become Prophet 54
      Instill Uprising 54
      Infiltrate 54
      Hide 54
      Attack Current Province 55
      Construct Building 55
      Demolish Building 55
  Turn resolution sequence 55
Combat 57
  Battles View 58
  Battle sequence 58
  Army Setup 58
    Formations 59
    Battlefield movement 60
  Melee combat 60
    Armor defeating hits 61
    Shield destruction 61
    Hit locations 61
    Weapon types 61
    Harassed 62
    Fatigue 62
      Unconsciousness 62
    Repel 62
    Multiple attacks 63
      Multiple weapons 63
    Melee attack resolution 63
    Dancing Weapons 64
  Mounted Units 64
    Hitting mounted units 64
    Mounted units and magic items 64
    Rider skill 64
    Mounted units and morale 64
    Rerecruiting mounted units 65
  Missile combat 65
  Special damage 66
    Fire damage 66
    Cold damage 66
    Profuse bleeding 66
    Poison damage 66
    Shock damage 67
    Acid damage 67
    Rust 67
    Life Drain damage 67
    Paralysis damage 67
    Fatigue damage 68
    False damage 68
  Clouds 68
  Morale and rout 69
    Morale 69
    Morale bonuses 69
      Morale, magic bonus 69
    Rout 69
      Army rout 70
2
[[page 3]]
Morale check 70
      Rout effects 70
      Mindless units 70
      Magic beings and undead 70
      Magic fear effects 70
      Long lasting battles and Twilight 71
  Afflictions 71
  Sieges 71
    Supply during sieges 72
  Storming a castle 72
  Weather 72
  Retreats 72
    Retreating when besieged 73
  Battle Summary 73
Magic 73
  The Paths of Magical Power 73
  The Schools of Magical Research 73
    Access to Magic Spells 74
    Combined Paths 74
  Empowerment 74
  Indirect Magic 74
  Types of spells 75
    Battle Magic 75
      Interrupts 75
      Battle Magic mechanics 75
      Fatigue 76
    Rituals 76
    Global Enchantments 77
      Dispelling global enchantments 77
      Dispel mechanics 77
      Protection vs global enchantments 78
      Grand Communions 78
  Communions 78
    Level bonus 78
    Fatigue distribution 78
    Definition of participant 78
    Communal Chants 79
    Different Communions 79
  Magic Gems 79
    Managing your magic resources 79
    Using magic gems in combat 79
  Research 80
    Legendary Spells 80
  Magic Items 80
  Divine Magic 81
  Alchemy 81
Dominion 82
  Maximum dominion 83
  Enemy dominion 83
  Increasing your dominion 83
    Dominion over water 83
    Appointing a prophet 83
    Mictlan 84
    Blood Sacrifices 84
    Dominion spread 84
    Preaching the Word of God 84
      Inquisitor bonus 85
      Heretics 85
  Dominion effects 85
    Dominion scales 85
      Effects of Dominion Scales 85
      Heat/Cold scale variability 86
      Extreme heat/cold scales 86
    Pretender and prophet hit points 86
  Dominion victory 87
    Dominion strategy 87
  Special Dominions 87
The Origins of Nations 89
    Abysia 89
    Agartha 89
    Arcoscephale 89
    Asphodel 89
    Bandar Log, Kailasa, Lanka and Patala 90
    Berytos 90
    Bogarus, Vanarus, and Rus 90
    Caelum 91
    C'tis 91
    Eriu 91
    Ermor and its legacy 91
    Hinnom, Ashdod and Gath 91
    Fomoria and Tir na n'Og 92
    Ind and its successors 92
    Machaka 92
    Man 93
    Marignon 93
    Marverni 93
    Mekone & Phlegra 93
    Mictlan 93
    Na'Ba and Ubar 94
    Nazca 94
    Nidavangr 94
    Oceania, Pelagia, and Erytheia 94
    Pangaea 95
    Phaeacia 95
    Pyrène 95
    Pythium 95
3
[[page 4]]
Ragha 95
    R'lyeh and Atlantis 96
    Sauromatia 96
    Sceleria and Lemuria 96
    Therodos 96
    T'ien Ch'i 96
    Ulm 97
    Ur and Uruk 97
    Vanheim, Helheim, Niefelheim, Muspelheim, Jotunheim, 97
Midgård, and Utgård
    Xibalba 98
    Yomi, Shinuyama and Jomon 98
    Ys 98
Magic Items 99
Path Boosters 116
Battlefield Spells 118
Summoning Rituals 141
Global Enchantments 208
Other Rituals 217
Nation Index 241
  Arcoscephale, Golden Era 243
  Mekone, Brazen Giants 245
  Pangaea, Age of Revelry 246
  Ermor, New Faith 248
  Sauromatia, Amazon Queens 250
  Fomoria, The Cursed Ones 252
  Tir na n'Og, Land of the Ever Young 254
  Marverni, Time of Druids 256
  Ulm, Enigma of Steel 258
  Pyrène, Kingdom of the Bekrydes 259
  Agartha, Pale Ones 261
  Abysia, Children of Flame 263
  Hinnom, Sons of the Fallen 265
  Ubar, Kingdom of the Unseen 267
  Ur, The First City 269
  Kailasa, Rise of the Ape Kings 271
  Lanka, Land of Demons 272
  T'ien Ch'i, Spring and Autumn 274
  Yomi, Oni Kings 276
  Caelum, Eagle Kings 277
  Mictlan, Reign of Blood 279
  Xibalba, Vigil of the Sun 280
  C'tis, Lizard Kings 282
  Machaka, Lion Kings 284
  Berytos, The Phoenix Empire 286
  Vanheim, Age of Vanir 288
  Helheim, Dusk and Death 289
  Rus, Sons of Heaven 291
  Niefelheim, Sons of Winter 293
  Muspelheim, Sons of Fire 294
  Pelagia, Pearl Kings 296
  Oceania, Coming of the Capricorns 298
  Therodos, Telkhine Spectre 299
  Atlantis, Emergence of the Deep Ones 300
  R'lyeh, Time of Aboleths 301
  Arcoscephale, The Old Kingdom 303
  Phlegra, Deformed Giants 305
  Pangaea, Age of Bronze 306
  Asphodel, Carrion Woods 308
  Ermor, Ashen Empire 310
  Sceleria, The Reformed Empire 311
  Pythium, Emerald Empire 313
  Man, Tower of Avalon 315
  Eriu, Last of the Tuatha 317
  Agartha, Golem Cult 319
  Ulm, Forges of Ulm 321
  Marignon, Fiery Justice 323
  Pyrène, Time of the Akelarre 325
  Abysia, Blood and Fire 327
  Ashdod, Reign of the Anakim 329
  Na'Ba, Queens of the Desert 331
  Uruk, City States 333
  Ind, Magnificent Kingdom of Exalted Virtue 335
  Bandar Log, Land of the Apes 336
  T'ien Ch'i, Imperial Bureaucracy 338
  Shinuyama, Land of the Bakemono 340
  Caelum, Reign of the Seraphim 342
  Nazca, Kingdom of the Sun 344
  Mictlan, Reign of the Lawgiver 346
  Xibalba, Flooded Caves 348
  C'tis, Miasma 350
  Machaka, Reign of Sorcerors 352
  Phaeacia, Isle of the Dark Ships 354
  Vanheim, Arrival of Man 356
  Vanarus, Land of the Chuds 357
  Jotunheim, Iron Woods 359
  Nidavangr, Bear, Wolf and Crow 361
  Ys, Morgen Queens 363
  Pelagia, Triton Kings 365
  Oceania, Mermidons 367
  Atlantis, Kings of the Deep 369
  R'lyeh, Fallen Star 371
  Arcoscephale, Sibylline Guidance 373
  Phlegra, Sleeping Giants 375
  Pangaea, New Era 377
  Pythium, Serpent Cult 378
4
[[page 5]]
Lemuria, Soul Gates 380
  Man, Towers of Chelms 381
  Ulm, Black Forest 383
  Agartha, Ktonian Dead 385
  Marignon, Conquerors of the Sea 387
  Abysia, Blood of Humans 389
  Ragha, Dual Kingdom 391
  Caelum, Return of the Raptors 393
  Gath, Last of the Giants 395
  Patala, Reign of the Nagas 397
  T'ien Ch'i, Barbarian Kings 399
  Jomon, Human Daimyos 401
  Mictlan, Blood and Rain 403
  Xibalba, Return of the Zotz 405
  C'tis, Desert Tombs 407
  Midgård, Age of Men 409
  Bogarus, Age of Heroes 410
  Utgård, Well of Urd 412
  Vaettiheim, Wolf Kin Jarldom 414
  Feminie, Sage-Queens 416
  Piconye, Legacy of the Prester King 418
  Andramania, Dog Republic 420
  Pyrène, Cambion Kings 422
  Erytheia, Kingdom of Two Worlds 424
  Atlantis, Frozen Sea 426
  R'lyeh, Dreamlands 428
Launch Options 430
5
[[page 6]]
Introduction
A Short History of Dominions
The world of Dominions took its first insecure steps in 1997
on the road to Santiago de Compostela.  We had finished
Conquest of Elysium, a simple yet addictive fantasy game
with a great deal of Nethack-ish unfairness and a multitude
of monsters (a trademark of ours).  We were working on a
space empire game, but decided that Master of Orion 2 had
much of what we liked in such a game, so we quit that
project.  Then I went to France and Spain for the summer for
a 1,000-mile walk.  It took 72 days and I had a lot of thinking
to do.  Several ideas came up, including a bug war with ants,
wasps and other bugs armed with cybernetics and guns. 
Some ideas from earlier in the spring evolved, and rudiments
of Pythium, C'tis, Man and Lareaux (a conglomerate of Ulm
and Marignon) came to life.
When I returned from Santiago, we began working on the
bug wars, but soon got bored and decided to make a tactical
fantasy game where you bought an army and pitted it
against your opponent’s army.
Statistics, battle mechanics, and morale are from this era. 
The tactical engine was much based upon board games
where commanders give orders to squads.  SPQR, Age of
Chivalry and Warhammer Fantasy Battle were inspirational
sources.  Morale loss and rout is a feature in all of these.  At
first you monitored every single unit, but soon you only
moved your commanders and told them what orders to give
to what squads.
WFB gave us the idea that heroes are fun, but we didn't
want heroes to be as important as they are in WFB.  At that
time there were no magic items, spells or monsters, apart
from the hydra.
After a while, fighting was becoming boring, and if the
output is boring, you quit.  At this time we were inspired by
VGA-Planets and decided that we wanted a strategic PBEM
game with tactical battles.  We started to think about how to
place the tactical engine in a strategic game and still have a
game that was playable by mail.  Control over battles was
the solution.
The move from a purely tactical to a strategic game made
the world much more important.  Some earlier ideas of an
Ars Magica-like game of magical research and politics were
remade.  Random content and magical sites in the provinces
would increase replayability.  Mages of the Order of Hermes
were replaced by competing gods.  The magical and divine
auras of Ars Magica gave us the idea of a dual war of armies
and dominions.  Mythological and historical paraphrases
came naturally as I have a great interest in the history of
religions.
Several nations had been thought up in the process of
making the tactical engine, but they evolved and changed
over time.  Pythium was split into Pythium and
Arcoscephale, Lareaux into Ulm and Marignon.
Magic and research were incorporated in the game.  The
eight paths and several dozen spells were there from the
beginning, but research was strange and boring.  The idea of
the magic schools made research an important choice, not
just a matter of how rich you were.  Global enchantments
were a later add-on inspired by Ars Magica and Master of
Magic.
Since 1997 the game has undergone many changes, but
some things are as they were in the beginning. We still have
old papers from 1997 that tells us how many resources a
plate cuirass costs, and what a mage should cost at a given
skill level.  Even though we scribbled down new stats as the
numbers were altered, the papers remained the same, until
work began on Dominions 3 in 2004 and we remade the
armor protection mechanics. Dominions: Priests, Prophets
and Pretenders was released 2001.  It got some Usenet
attention and we were glad to get some input.  Bugs and
imperfections were pointed out and we tried to fix most of
them.  After a half year or so we decided that we wanted to
make a new game instead of making small changes to
Dominions.
We started on several ideas, including a strange 3D version
of Dominions.  After a while we returned to Dominions and
decided to make what is now Dominions II.  Our primary
goal was to remake the user interface. Much was the same,
but many ideas that were difficult to incorporate into
Dominions: PPP were now possible to implement. We had as
much time as we wished, no schedule, and no expectations.
During Christmas 2001 I visited my parents and had some
spare days. I accidentally made a board game map and
system inspired by Dominions, but never managed to finish
it. I still have a bunch of papers, a wooden map, and a little
box filled with some hundred wood pieces that needs
painting.  Johan Karlsson (the programmer and co-designer)
6
[[page 7]]
is more of a finisher than I am. We later
scanned the map and used it as our first
Dominions II map (The Sundering).
Dominions II was released, and we
started working on the first patch.  The
first patch included new themes as well
lots of small changes and bug fixes.  The
game and the community grew and we
got positive feedback and inspiration
from fans all over the world.  Maps,
mods and other contributions made by
fans kept the community, as well as us,
active.
New content was added in a number of
patches.  We still had many ideas
regarding the world, the game, and the
future.  At first, we were content with
patching the game, but after a while we
decided that there were things that could not be fixed unless
major changes were made to the game engine.  We decided
to start on a third version of Dominions.
I had plenty of ideas regarding nations and themes.  The first
was Oceania, an underwater nation similar to Pangaea.  An
early version of Oceania was included in one of the last
patches for Dominions II.  Sauromatia, inspired by the
Scythians, Amazons and Androphags of Herodotus, and
Bandar Log, a nation inspired by ancient India and Hindu
myth, were two nations I had been dreaming about.  Soon,
the numbers of nations increased and we decided to divided
the nations chronologically and alter the theme structure. 
Themes were replaced by three ages with somewhat
different characteristics.  The concept of Awakening, an old
idea, was relaunched.
Then work slowed down for a while.  Work, social life and
other computer games ate up part of our time.  We didn't
have a deadline, nor any clear direction, apart from adding
fun stuff and making the game more user-friendly. After a
rather long period of random adding of content and bug
fixes, we decided that it was time to start the beta.  In
February 2006, the Dominions 3 beta forum was started,
and almost 7,000 posts later, Dominions 3 – The Awakening
was finished.
That’s about it, I think.
/ Kristoffer Osterman, Sweden, Summer 2006
About The Creation of Dominions 4
After completing Dominions 3 we were a bit tired of making
Dominions, so starting with Dominions 4 then was out of the
question.  Also, Johan got a new full-time job at Sony
Ericsson then and got his programming needs fulfilled there. 
Many Dominions 3 patches and a long break later we got
inspiration for making a new game again, but we wanted
something different from our earlier projects. So we started
with Trade & Taint.
Trade & Taint was just a preliminary name, but we never
figured out a better one.  It was a real time multiplayer
online game, like a MMORPG, but not massive and with no
3d characters.  The game took a lot of inspiration from Star
Sonata, a great little game by the way.
The concept was to buy a party of soldiers and donkeys and
then transport goods between villages, making money by
buying cheap and selling were the demand was high.  After a
while you would be rich enough to start your own colonies
and create mines there if the place is mineral-rich or maybe
plant fields and sell oats.  It was still an Illwinter game, so we
had magic and horrors, too.  When you had a colony you
could create a wizard's tower and have your mages perform
magic rituals, craft items, and enchant your surroundings. 
We had global rituals too, like meteor storms that made a
meteor crash down on the world every minute or so.  The
meteor storms looked very apocalyptic and were
devastating for everyone but the horrors.  Performing magic
7
Trade & Taint
[[page 8]]
made the world more tainted and enough taint resulted in
horrors appearing.  First came a few, then came some more,
and finally there was an apocalypse of horrors that
destroyed settlements, player colonies, and eventually the
entire world.
It was, however, a bit too ambitious and it felt impossible to
finish, so it got laid aside. Instead, we decided to make
something easier and that was to create a modern Conquest
of Elysium, because we have always enjoyed that little game.
And now we had some cool horrors from Trade and Taint to
put into Conquest of Elysium as well.
After Conquest of Elysium 3 was finished, working on
Dominions sounded like a fun idea again, so we started to
plan a Dominions 4.  We had a few really major changes that
we wanted to see:  one was the 3D world map from Trade
and Taint.  Here you would get line of sight for armies and
movement speed would be meters per day with exact
distances between cities.  Also, you would have changing
terrain and line-of-sight for magic rituals.  Another idea was
real-time battles, with everyone moving at once and spells
having different casting times.  The third idea was team play
with a team consisting of one god and his disciples.
Then we made a list of all the little changes we also wanted
to make and it got very long. So long that we thought it was
enough with that list to make a new game.  So we scrapped
some of the major ideas that had the potential of making
Dominions 4 a worse game than its predecessor.  Thus, we
decided against the 3D map and the real-time battles. We
have experienced a few games that got
worse with their updates and we didn't
want that with Dominions 4.  Maybe
with a Dominions 5. We kept the team
play idea though, because it fits well
with the current Dominions system. 
Also we really enjoyed the team play in
the War of the Ring board game and
wanted the same feeling in Dominions. 
For those who haven't played it, there
are fixed teams:  Sauron and his ally
Saruman on one side, and all the good
ones on the other.
When development of Dominions 4
started, the GUI system from CoE3 was
imported. Then the network system,
random map generation and some 3D
stuff from Trade & Taint was imported
too.  Sprites were imported from both games, so we got
some new horrors and new item pictures from Trade &
Taint, where there are sprites for every mundane weapon
and piece of armor in the game.  Some monsters like the
gelatinous cube from CoE3 were also imported.  In an effort
to get the sprites sorted in a more logical way as well as
redrawing the ugly ones, Kristoffer decided to rearrange all
the sprites in the game.  So for a long time almost all nations
had what looked like random sprites for its units, making it
somewhat difficult to play.
Our first test game took place right after we got the team
play working.  Many units still looked funny and you had to
tell Kristoffer that "my scout looks like an elephant with a
red cross on it," to have him prioritize that.
During development a multitude of new ideas popped up.
Some were small and easy to implement, others had more
impact on the game. The Thrones of Ascension was one such
later development that we just had to add, once we came up
with the idea. Some ideas were discarded and others lie
around and might be added in future patches.
Now, a bare month before release and almost 3000 posts in
our beta forum, the game is working well, random sprites are
quite rare and bugs tend to be easy to fix.
We hope that you find Dominions entertaining, regardless
of whether you are new to the series or if you are a
long-time player of our games.
8
Trade & Taint
[[page 9]]
/Johan & Kristoffer,
August 2013
About the
Creation of
Dominions 5
After finishing
Dominions 4 and
making quite a few
patches too we once
again got a bit tired of
working on
Dominions. When
thinking about what
kind of game we
wanted to work on, we
decided it had to be
something different
and we began to work
on a space game. It
was going to be a
game where you mined and transported minerals in order to
build space ships to defeat your enemies with. It was
inspired by the good old vga-planets game.
The game got random planets and some nice mineral
surveys, but it never got far before we abandoned it in favor
of a new version of Conquest of Elysium. We had some good
ideas for CoE like an inferno plane that contained the demon
lords and if you summoned them they
would actually be summoned from that
plane. It would then be possible (just) to
kill them permanently by going down
there and slaying them on their home
plane. We also had ideas for random
rituals, inaccurate monster descriptions
and new combat mechanics. After
about one and a half years and many
additional planes, Conquest of Elysium
4 was released.
After CoE4 we started to play and
develop Trade and Taint again just for
the fun of it. It is a game that we did not
intend to finish, so we could play and
experiment as much as we liked.
After a while we wanted to make a game we could finish
again, but we wanted it to be something different from CoE
and Dominions. We have played many roguelike games back
in the times, and recently we had played Tales of Maj’Eyal
too and we had many ideas on how to make a better
roguelike. So we started to make our own roguelike game
called Dungeons of Elysium. It had the same aggressive
wildlife that can be found in Elysium. It also took advantage
9
9th Millennium
9th Millennium
[[page 10]]
of the terrain drawing engine in Elysium that turned out to
be really good at drawing dungeons too.
DoE had a similar class system to TaT where you start on a
random career e.g. a footpad and then the footpad can
advance to smuggler, burglar or grave robber depending on
what trainer you encounter.
We created a few stories, a fun abstract travel system, and a
dungeon editor. Actually, the dungeon editor turned out to
be very useful at creating nice looking
encounter maps for our own pen and
paper role playing campaigns. After
canceling DoE we later made the map
editor a bit more user-friendly and
released it as Illwinter's Floorplan
Generator, a tool to help pen and paper
role-players.
After a few months of DoE we also
started to work on our old 4x space
strategy game again. The planets and
minerals were already in place, so this
time we added production, space
combat and ground combat. Combat
was automatic like in Dominions, but more colorful with
lasers and photon torpedoes in space.
Production was a bit different from most other games, you
had to create factories for specific spaceship models in
order to produce it efficiently. So you were encouraged to
not redesign your spaceship models too frequently as you
would have to build new factories for them as well.
By now many years had passed since we released Dominions
10
Dungeons of Elysium
Dungeons of Elysium
[[page 11]]
4 and we felt inspired to do a Dominions 5. Realtime combat
was going to be the major change for the new Dominions,
but we had a quite a few other ideas too. One idea that
didn't make it was The Council of Immortals, where you got
to vote for divine laws and titles and got influence from your
claimed thrones. Another idea was for mounts to have
separate stats, so you could kill either the mount or the
rider. Kristoffer had ideas for a ton of new nations as usual,
some of them made it into Dominions 5 and hopefully a few
more will make it in future updates to the game.
When the development of Dominions 5 started we imported
the GUI system from CoE4 that gets rid of the fuzzy looking
font and the 3D engine was updated to use the one from
Trade and Taint. After many years of incremental updates
the 3D world in Trade and Taint was both faster and better
looking than the one in Dominions 4, so it would be stupid
not to use that one instead. At first we also used the particle
effects on magic items that we had in TaT and that made the
items sparkle or burn with blue flames. But it didn't feel right
in Dominions and it was removed.
When writing this the 3D castles are still not finished, some
units of Rus only looks like a few red letters and many
descriptions remain to be written. But the game plays well
and it feels realistic that it will be finished in a month when it
is supposed to be released.
We hope you will enjoy the game!
/Johan & Kristoffer, October 2017
About the Creation of Dominions 6
After finishing Dominions 5 and patching it quite extensively
we got some inspiration for Conquest of Elysium and started
creating the fifth version of that series. CoE 5 now got two
new planes, the sky and heaven, as well as much more
interesting battlefields where the terrain features had stats
and could e.g. start burning if hit by a fireball. The Cloud
Lord was also added as the class that would start on the sky
plane.
While working on Conquest of Elysium we collected and
wrote down ideas for Dominions. After about a year of
Conquest of Elysium we felt like implementing some of our
ideas for Dominons, most notably by remaking how the
mounts worked. The mounts in Dominions 5 have always
been a bit strange, sometimes they use the rider as the
target and you have to kill the rider and cannot hit the horse.
Sometimes if the mount felt important you had to kill the
mount first and then maybe it transformed into a lone rider
afterwards. It was not logical, and we wanted to change this
so that both rider and mount had stats and both could be hit
by attacks. And an area attack like a fireball should be able
to hit both the rider and the mount at the same time.
So we put CoE 5 on the shelf for a while and started to work
on Dominions 6 instead. At first it was only the mount
system that was being changed, but pretty soon a new magic
path was added as well, the path of Glamour.  With the
addition of this path we could separate the nations that are
good at hurling lightning bolts from the ones that like
illusions and thus diversify the nations a bit more.
Work on Dominions 6 continued for about a year, before we
decided that we wanted to finish up CoE 5 instead. The work
on CoE included even more planes, a new map system, boats
and more classes. Eventually we reached a stage where we
felt it was ready enough and it was finally released in the
summer of 2021.
Somewhere in between we also continued on our game
Trade & Taint.  We probably mostly played it, but some
development got done as well.  E.g. we fixed the invisible
guard towers that were ambushing people traveling in the
forests.  A limit of 50000 units of a single type was also
implemented, as the giant ants were going rampant and
overwhelmed the game occasionally.
After we had released CoE 5 and as well as a few content
patches for it we returned to Dominions 6. There was still a
lot of work to be done on the reformed mount system and
several times we wondered if it was worth the amount of
work it meant, but with the game finished we are confident
it was indeed worth it. There was also a lot of stuff related to
the addition of glamour magic that had to be addressed
including new sites, spells and rebalancing.
Apart from the changes to mechanics there are several new
nations, and a few in the works that will be released in some
of the first content patches. One of the new nations is
Muspelheim, a nation that we have intended to make for a
very long time. With some new mechanics our vision for that
nation was made possible.
Many of the improvements of CoE 5 were related to
gameplay and a better UI and we probably learned a bit in
the process. Dominions 6 has more changes to QoL and UI
than any previous iteration of the game and we believe that
11
[[page 12]]
the gaming experience in Dominions 6 is improved
compared to earlier versions.
Finally we have added a server lobby for multiplayer games.
This is also a lesson learned from the CoE5 development.
Hopefully it will help people to find and start multiplier
games.
/Johan & Kristoffer, January 2024
Major Changes in Dominions 6
There are too many new changes between Dominions 5 and
Dominions 6 to mention them all in the manual.  But here is a
list of the most important changes to the rules and
mechanics that make up the world of Dominions.  This might
be useful if you are already familiar with how the world of
Dominions 5 works.
Glamour
A new magic path called Glamour.  Glamour deals with illusions,
dreams and luck and fits in among the sorcery paths. Blood
Magic is no longer part of sorcery and is a path outside the
traditional elemental and sorcery paths.
Mount Stats
Mounts now have stats of their own that are tracked
separately from the rider.  So in a battle it is possible to hit rider
or mount, or maybe both in the case of an area of effect hit.  If
the mount is killed the rider can continue to fight on the
ground.  There can also be mounts with multiple riders like
elephants or the other way around, carriers with a single rider.
Battlefield Terrain
There are now bushes, rocks and other obstacles to be found
on the battlefield, all with their own stats that can be affected
by e.g. area of effect attacks in the vicinity.  These terrain
obstacles can easily be crushed by large monsters, but smaller
ones might have to navigate around them.
Assassination Locations
Assassinations now usually take place in confined areas
appropriate for the target, e.g. a mage might be assassinated in
the library and an ordinary commander might be assassinated
while visiting the local tavern.  Local bystanders might be also
be dragged into the assassination if they happen to be present.
Hidden Map
The map is hidden from the start and has to be explored in
order to find out what kind of provinces are available.
Multiple Planes
The map can now contain multiple planes that can be
discovered and conquered.
Alterable Map Terrain
The terrain type of provinces on the world map can now
change.  This is a quite rare, but can happen if a province is
under the influence of an extreme Dominion scale for a long
time or if the province is targeted by a high level ritual that
affects the terrain.
Legendary Spells
Research level 9 now contains legendary spells.  Legendary
spells are usually very powerful, but can only be researched
one at a time.  You have to choose carefully which one to
research first once you reach that level.
Extreme Dominion Scales
Pretender Gods can usually only choose Dominion Scale values
between -2 and 2.  But some Pretenders or Nations can add to
this limit to make it possible to pick more severe scales. Scales
at values 4 and 5 are known as extreme scales and usually
comes with some special effects that are not necessarily good.
Larger
The scale has increased.  Dominions 6 is able to handle many
more units than before, both population and armies are now
about 50% larger for more epic battles.
Of course there are also many new nations, monsters, magic
items, spells, magic sites, bless effects and random events
that were not present in the world of Dominions 5.
Authors Note
The Dominions 6 manual is based on the previous
Dominions 5 manual that was written by Bruce Geryk.  It has
since been updated by us at Illwinter Game Design to be
suitable for Dominions 6.  We hope you will like it!
The layout of this manual was created with the help of
Illwinter's PDF Typesetter, a newly created program that
might be released to the public later on.  It has an easy to use
markdown-like syntax, but creates ready for printing
multi-column documents with floating pictures and tables.
/Johan & Kristoffer, March 2023
12
[[page 13]]
The Basics
Dominions Random Number (DRN)
Most Dominions game mechanisms use something called
the Dominions Random Number (DRN).  When a random
number is called for, the number used is actually a DRN. 
This is a roll of two six-sided dice (2d6) but with an
additional bonus:  if any individual die roll is “6,” one is
subtracted, and then that die is re-rolled and added to the
result.  This is referred to as an “open-ended” 2d6 roll.
Example:  The game calls for a DRN.  Two dice are rolled and
they come up 2,6.  Because one of the dice was a “6,” one is
subtracted from the total (making 7), and the die is rolled
again.  But this die is also a 6.  So one is subtracted from the
total (now up to 12) and a die is rolled again.  It is a 4.  The
final result for this DRN is 16.
Note that if both original dice came up as 6, both would be
re-rolled and added as above.  If a die keeps coming up 6, it
keeps getting re-rolled and added, which can very
occasionally lead to large numbers.
Dominions has a lot of situations where something is very
unlikely to happen, like a militia soldier hitting an ethereal
monster.  However, in the real world of Dominions, very few
things are actually impossible.  To model this fact as closely
as can be, the Dominions Random Number was created. 
With it, it is always possible for such an event to occur,
which would not be the case if the roll was not open-ended.
In some rare cases, there may be only one six-sided die
rolled.  It is still open-ended, but in this case, the rules refer
to it as a drn, in lower-case letters.
Probabilities in Dominions 6
Most die rolls in Dominions 6 involve one player rolling
higher than another player using the DRN system.  To give
players some idea of how likely something is to happen, here
is a table that shows the difference between two values on
the left, and the chance of beating that value using two
open-ended dice on the right.
Difference Chance
-10 3 %
-9 5 %
-8 6 %
-7 8 %
-6 11 %
-5 14 %
-4 18 %
-3 24 %
-2 30 %
-1 38 %
0 46 %
1 54 %
2 62 %
3 70 %
4 76 %
5 82 %
6 86 %
7 89 %
8 92 %
9 94 %
10 95 %
What does this mean?  It means that if you have a Jotun
Moose Rider with attack skill 9 and your opponent has an
Abysian Infantry with defense skill 10, your chance of
beating him with two open-ended dice
(and thus scoring a hit) is 38%.  If the
values were reversed, your chance of
success would be 54%.  Why the
seeming disjunction?  Because the
“zero-point” is only 46%.  Remember –
the table shows the chance of beating
your opponent.  Thus, if you are evenly
matched, you need to roll higher than he
or she does on the same type of dice,
and thus your chances of doing so are
less than even.  46%, to be exact.
Sometimes the manual will state that a
13
Main Menu
[[page 14]]
given effect requires a morale check (or some other ability
check) “against” some number.  This is simply a way of saying
that a unit’s morale (or other ability) + DRN is compared to
the stated number + DRN.  So if a unit has to “take a morale
check against 12,” this means the unit’s morale + a DRN is
compared to 12 + DRN.  If the unit has a morale of 10, the
chart above would indicate that the chance of this unit
passing the check is 30%.
The Interface
Starting a Game
Game creation and game playing in
Dominions 6 are separate things.  In
order to start a new game, you must
create it under Create World.  When
you return to a game you have already
created after the first time you play it,
you choose Continue Old Game.
Creating a new game
To create a new game, click on Create
World in the opening menu screen. 
You'll be asked to choose a map, which
can be a pre-made map or a randomly
created one.  The map will be generated
once you have made
all your choices for the
game.  The next step is
to give the game a
name.  This generates
a folder with this name
in the "savedgames"
folder so you can find
the files easily.  You
can access this from
the Tools & Manuals
menu under Other /
Open User Data
Directory.
You can start playing
the game immediately
from the creation
menu.  Once a game
has been created and
you have quit out of it
for some reason, you
can play it again by choosing Continue Old Game from the
same menu, and selecting the appropriate one.
Choosing an Age
The next choice will be whether to play in the Early, Middle,
or Late Ages.  This determines the nations available.  In
general, Early Age nations have weaker troops and stronger
mages.
14
Choose Map Menu
Choose Participants
Menu
[[page 15]]
Choosing participants
Once you have selected an age, you can select the nation
you and the AI player(s) will represent.  The default is
“Random” which will choose from the available list of
nations.  You can choose a specific nation by clicking on the
word “Random” which will open a window listing the
available nations for that Age.  Then click on the nation you
desire.  Nations cannot be duplicated – there can only be
one of each in a given game.  You can also set the AI players
to specific nations in the same way.  To add another player
(either AI or human), click on “Add new player.”  To remove a
player from the game, click on the name of the nation (or on
“Random” if you have not set a nation) and click on the word
“None” at the bottom of the list of nations.
Disciple games
At the bottom of the Choose Participants screen is a
checkbox for "Disciple Game."  This is a special type of game
that will be explained below.  Once you check this box, two
additional columns will appear:  one for Team and one for
pretender/disciple.  You will not be able to click "Ok" (the
choice will be greyed out) until each team has one and only
one pretender (and any number of disciples).  There is no
requirement for balance among teams, or equal numbers of
disciples, or having disciples at all.  You can change teams
and pretender/disciple status by clicking directly on the
team number, or on the word "pretender" or "disciple."
The disciple game is a team game which allows players to
play in teams, but preserves the true nature of the world of
Dominions, which is that it is all about pretenders aspiring to
godhood.  And there can only be one god in the end.  So one
player takes on the role of the pretender.  All other players
on his team (if there are any – there is no requirement for all
pretenders in a disciple game to have disciples) play the part
of his disciples.
Disciples do not create pretenders, they create disciples.  A
player has 400 points (rather than the usual 450 for
pretenders) to create a disciple.  Furthermore, disciples have
no dominion or scales.  They only choose physical form and
magic paths.  They also cannot choose whether they are
awake or not from the  beginning of the game.  They awaken
in half the time of the pretender God, so only awake gods
start with awake disciples.  After all, it is they who are
heralding the entrance of the pretender god.  The temples of
disciple players spread the dominion of their pretender god. 
The disciple unit itself does so, too, but as a prophet (the
equivalent of one temple check).  Disciple units also get
increases in strength, hit points, and magic resistance when
they are in their pretender god's dominion, just like
prophets.  In disciple games, no one can appoint prophets,
neither the pretender player or the disciple players, since
the disciples act as prophets. Prophets can only be
appointed by pretenders that have no disciples.
15
[[page 16]]
Creating Pretender
After choosing which nations will participate in the game,
you will be taken to the create pretender screen for each of
the human players. Here you will create the Pretender God
that will be in charge of your nation and possibly capture
enough Thrones of Ascension to acquire full godhood.
Creating a pretender is an involved process that is described
in the Pretender chapter of the manual.
Pretenders created here can be saved by clicking ctrl-s. By
saving it you can load it into other games later by pressing
ctrl-l in the pretender creation screen.  In the Game Tools
menu, there is also a pretender creation tool that can be
used to create and save pretenders for future games.
Game settings
The last issue is the game settings.  These control the
makeup of the world, as well as some options for renaming
commanders, showing score graphs, and various other
options.
The options are straightforward and are described by
tooltips that appear when mousing over the different
categories.  Players can choose to make gold more or less
available, change the frequency with which magic sites will
appear, adjust the strength of independents, and many other
things which will give the game a unique character.  This is
largely up to the players’ taste.  For example, a game with a
high independent strength will slow players’ expansion
while they build larger armies to conquer adjacent
provinces, and will prolong the time before enemy nations
come into contact.  Increasing magic (either sites or
research) will hurt nations which have weak magic to begin
with, because more magic-oriented nations will be able to
start using more powerful magic faster.  You’ll eventually get
a feel for what works for you.
Score graphs
Score graphs contain a lot of information, and can take over
a multiplayer game as everyone watches who has the most
provinces, who has the biggest army, and thus who is seen as
the biggest threat.  It makes for a very different game if
players have to scout for information, and diplomacy
becomes more useful since it’s not immediately obvious that
you have an army twice as big as your neighbor’s.  The game
plays very differently in multiplayer with score graphs on, as
the prime objective becomes to not be the leader in any of
the major categories, while not falling too far behind, either.
On the other hand, in solo games, especially for newbies, the
score graphs can be valuable tools for gauging your progress
and evaluating threats to your position.  Use them wisely.
Units with the Spy ability give players access to score
graphs, even if they are disabled.  They cannot get
information on enemy players unless they are in the enemy
capital, however.
Master password
Setting a master password allows the host to go in and set a
player’s position to computer control (and thus preserve the
flow of the game) if a player drops out and his pretender is
password-protected.  For large multiplayer games where
some attrition is likely, consider either setting a master
password, or having a third party collect all the passwords
for the game, to be used only if a player becomes
unreachable.
While the usefulness of the master password is mostly the
ability to give AI control to a dropped player, it does allow
full access to a player’s position.
Limited unique artifact forging rate
This setting is on by default and limits players to forge a
maximum of one unique artifact per game turn.  Unique
artifacts can only be forged once you have researched level
9 in Construction.  By limiting the rate to one per turn it will
also be meaningful for players with slower research to aim
for artifact construction.
Limited legendary spell research rate
This is on by default and makes level 9 an epic research level,
where you will only get one out of all the spells available on
that level.  You get to choose which spell you want to
research, and it is possible to research level 9 multiple times
to get all the spells if you want.
Renaming
By default it is not possible to rename commanders. This can
be changed with this option. If renaming is enabled you will
be able to rename any commander except Pretender Gods,
Disciples, Prophets and famous heroes. To rename a
commander, inspect his stats and then press 'r' to rename.
16
[[page 17]]
Cheat prevention
Cheat prevention will try to prevent people from cheating
and send messages to all players if anyone has been found
doing something that is against the game rules. Cheat
prevention only protects against players other than the host
from cheating.  The host must be trusted as he has full
access to the game and can easily rewind turns without
anyone noticing if he so wishes.  Make sure to password
protect your Pretender God if playing in an online
multiplayer game, otherwise anyone might look at or alter
your turn.
Throne game settings
By pressing the "Thrones" tab you will be able to set up the
victory conditions.  Winning by controlling enough Thrones
of Ascension is the recommended and default victory
condition.  This can be changed to Conquer all if you prefer a
game where you have to eliminate all other players.
Cataclysm
This is a way to force the game to end
after a certain number of turns.  The
Cataclysm will cause horrors to appear
and start destroying Thrones of
Ascension.  (These are very powerful
horrors.)  Every Throne destroyed also
reduces the number of Ascension
points required, so a winner should
appear shortly after the Cataclysm
begins.  In the unlikely event that no
one owns a Throne as the last ones are
destroyed, the horrors win.
During the cataclysm the magic scale will rise in the world
and the magic ether will become corrupted.  Casting rituals,
forging magic items or empowering can all cause horrors to
sense the mage and attack.  The more gems used, the higher
the chance of a really powerful horror appearing.  The
horrors that appear due to these magic activities will strike
after the activity is finished, so it is possible to sacrifice a
mage in order to forge an expensive item.
Throne settings
Here you can choose how many thrones of level 1 - 3 that
will be on the map.  A level 1 throne is worth 1 ascension
point and will only be marginally more well guarded that an
ordinary province.  A level 3 throne is worth 3 ascension
points and will be very difficult to take.
You can also set the total amount of Ascension Points
required in order to become the Pantokrator (the true god)
and win the game.
17
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
Ragha is a dual kingdom of fire and ice, rage and serenity.  Half of the population are Abysian descendants from the isolated colony of 
Tur, and half are Airyan refugees from Caelum.  Tur was a distant and prosperous Abysian colony founded after a successful military 
campaign against the giants of Ashdod.  But the war with Ashdod had been taxing and the colony was cut off from the kingdom by an 
Arcoscephalean campaign through the fertile lands previously conquered by the giants.  For centuries, Tur was left alone and an 
independent kingdom formed.  Then came the Caelians.  A great host of iceclad warriors descended upon the Turan armies on the plain 
of Ragha in the middle of winter.  The Turan Shah realized that the Tur could not stand up to the Caelians for long.  Tur was on the brink 
of destruction when the attacks suddenly stopped.  Civil war had broken out in Caelum and the campaign was aborted.  Instead, Caelian 
refugees and deserters settled on the plain of Ragha.  Airyan Seraphs approached the Turan Shah and peace was negotiated.  When the 
Harab Seraphs of Caelum attacked, the Airyas were saved by the gryphon riders of Tur.  This sealed the truce and a strange alliance was 
formed.  Ragha is now a society of two peoples united out of necessity.  During winter the Airyas reign and during the summer the 
Turans reign.  Even faith has evolved to mimic the legacy of the two peoples.  Two different groups of beings are adored and worshiped.  
But this is starting to change.  The One True God has arisen.  The peoples of Ragha suffer less from hot or cold climates than the people 
of other nations.
[[page 18]]
Game Tools
Dominions 6 has a number of options under this menu to
create new pretenders, as well as manage pretenders you
have already created.  There is also a map editor, a tool for
creating random maps with custom settings, as well as a
shortcut to the directory where Dominions 6 stores your
files.
Playing a multiplayer game
The game supports many ways of playing multiplayer:
hotseat play (multiple players on the same computer), online
play (either with a private server or on the official server), or
even play-by-email (PBEM).  If you are the only human
player in the game (all other nations are AI) then it is a solo
game and you can skip this chapter.
Because turns in Dominions 6 are resolved simultaneously,
it works very well in multiplayer.  Everyone can do their
turns when they want and when everyone is finished a new
turn will be generated.
Playing a hotseat game
Starting a hotseat game is done in the same way as a single
player game. Just add extra human players when choosing
the participants and you are done.
Playing a network game
The easy way to play online is to use the official game server
for Dominions 6. Choose Network and then Enter Game
Lobby from the main menu.
From the game lobby it is easy to set up a game for others to
join, or to join a game someone else has set up.  It should be
pretty self explanatory if you are familiar with how to set up
a solo game of Dominions 6.
Note: Remember to add a password to your pretender when
playing online. Without a password anyone will be able to
peek at or alter your turns.
Setting up your own personal game server is also possible,
but more complicated.  The recommended way to play
multiplayer in Dominions 6 is via the game lobby.  For
instructions regarding PBEM or private game servers you
have to read in the old Dominions 5 manual (free to
download on www.illwinter.com).
Playing the Game
Once you have started a game and are presented with the
main game screen, you'll need to become familiar with the
interface.  At first you are viewing your home province, to
view a different province you should right-click on it (this
can be changed to left-click in the preferences if desired).
* To view a different province, right click on the province.
* To select a commander, left-click on his icon and he turns white
(selected).
* To give a commander order to move, you left-click the province
to which you want him to move.
Right-clicking, in many cases, gives you further information. 
For example: To get information on a unit in almost any
screen, you right-click on the unit.  The same applies when
you want information on magic items or spells.
Basic Game Functions
At the top right of the map screen is a row of buttons that
are used for most things.  These are divided up into five
18
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
Ermor is an empire centered on a great city.  For centuries it has grown, and has become more and more influential.  Traders and 
travelers from near and far come to the city.  By military campaigns, diplomacy, and trade, Ermor has become a power to be reckoned 
with.  By adopting local traditions and beliefs, Ermorians posed little threat to neighbors and conquered peoples, but this has begun to 
change.  A new God is rising.  Old syncretistic faiths and spirit worship were banned by a Prophet dressed in white shrouds.  The 
remnants of his bods and shrouds are buried in the Holy City of Eldregate where the adherents of the New Faith are awaiting the arrival 
of the Reawakening God foreseen by the Prophet.  The all-encompassing old state cult of the Numinas still survives, but the Pontifices 
and Flamen are slowly adopting the New Faith. 
  Cornelius is the current Pontifex Maximum and the highest ranking priest of the Old Faith.  He was the one who performed the high 
sacrifices in the capital.  But it was also he who let decadence and corruption thrive in the priestly order.  He has been blamed by many 
for the fall of the Old Cult and its traditions.  The Arch Bishops of the New Faith let him remain as a figurehead, but everyone knows that 
his influence is limited.  Cornelius still commands great religious authority and is a potent mage.  Cornelius is old, frail, and rather fat and 
rarely ventures far from his chambers.
[[page 19]]
sections.
The province buttons performs actions for the current
province only. These buttons are (letter in parenthesis is the
keyboard shortcut):
(e) End turn
This ends the current turn. In a single player game this initiates
the host procedure.
(t) Army setup
This is where you can assign your units to commanders, change
formations, and array your forces on the battlefield.  See Army
Setup on page 43 for more information.
(y) Army setup at destination
This is an alternative to the regular army setup. Instead of
commanders currently present in the province commanders
that will be present next turn are shown.  See Army Setup on
page 43 for more information.
(u) Patrolling army setup
This is an alternative to the regular army setup showing only
patrolling commanders.  This is mostly useful in fortified
provinces.  See Army Setup on page 43 for more information.
(r) Recruit unit
This opens the recruitment panel for a given nation and shows
the units available for recruitment in the selected province. 
This only works for provinces the player controls.
(b) Mercenaries
Players can see which mercenaries are available for hire.  You
can bid on these by clicking on the name of the company you
wish to bid on.
(i) Read Province Chronicles
Here you read some information about the province and its
inhabitants as well as all past important events that has
occurred in the province.
The nation buttons are not dependent on the current
province. These buttons are the following:
(m) Read messages
Allows you to read the beginning-of-turn messages.
(s) Send messages
Allows you to send messages, items, or gold to other players.
(F1) Nation Overview
This screen gives a global picture of your units and provinces. 
You can buy province defense, or go straight to a province
using this screen.  It also keeps track of magic site searches.
(F2) Score graphs
If score graphs are enabled, you can see a running comparison
of the strengths of the various nations in terms of provinces
owned, total dominion, army size, etc.  You can also see the
names and status (human or AI) of all pretenders, and whether
or not they are still in the game.
(F3) Hall of Fame
Commanders who have survived the most fights and killed the
most enemies receive a Heroic Ability for entering the Hall of
Fame.  This ability continues to improve as long as the hero is
listed here.
(F4) Pretenders
Displays a list of all pretenders in the game unless information
on other players was disabled during game creation.
The magic buttons are the following:
(F5) Research
Takes you to the Research screen where you can access spell
research.
(F6) Global Enchantments
Shows you the global enchantment spells currently affecting
the world.
(F7) Magic item treasury
Shows the magic items you have stored in your treasury.
(F8) Magic item overview
An easy way to see all magic items in your kingdom (both in
treasury and equipped on commanders) and learn where they
are.
(F9) Thrones of Ascension
This displays the Thrones of Ascension active in the game (if
any).
The game buttons can be used to change settings and to end
the turn.
(Esc) Options
Adjusts music and video settings, and allows you to save, and
quit the game.
(e) End Turn
When you have completed your turn, this button saves your
move to a file in the game folder, or uploads it to the server if
you are playing an online game.  You may still go back and
adjust your move, or even start over from scratch.  Exception: 
In a solo game, hitting End Turn automatically hosts the current
turn.
On the row underneath are buttons for all the planes. These
buttons will be greyed out for any plane that you currently
have no access to. Usually the planes are these:
19
[[page 20]]
(1) Pantokrator's realm
This is the overland world where most of the game will take
place.
(2) The realm beneath
The caverns underneath.
(3) The void
The empty space where horrors thrive. Usually you will not end
up here.
You can hide all buttons and commanders by hitting the “h”
key. This way only the map will be visible.
Some buttons may be active (like the Statistics button) but
not yield any information if the score graphs have been
turned off in the game options when the game was created.
The Province buttons refer only to the province you have
selected.  They may do nothing if the province you have
selected is owned by the enemy.
Most of these buttons will be discussed in detail in further
sections.
The Map
Maps in Dominions 6 have one characteristic feature:  they
are divided up into provinces.  These provinces are
delineated by the
greyish lines. 
However, the lines are
really only for your
visual reference; the
game engine does not
use them in any way. 
Instead, what is
important is which
province is a neighbor
of which other
province.  You can see
this by looking at the
yellow dotted lines,
they go between the
neighboring
provinces.  The yellow
lines should be seen by
default, but if it is
turned off, hitting the
[Ctrl+8] key to Toggle
Neighbors will turn it
on again.
The table on this page shows all the display toggles that can
be used to control what you see on the map.
Keyboard shortcuts to control map view
Arrows scroll map
Home go to home province
Ctrl+Home go to Pretender / Disciple
g / # goto province nbr
End zoom x0.5
Insert zoom to cover screen
Delete zoom to fit entire map
Page Up / Ctrl+Up zoom in
Page Down / Ctrl+Down zoom out
Ctrl+f map filter menu
Ctrl+1 toggle flags/forts
Ctrl+2 toggle armies
Ctrl+3 toggle dominion
Ctrl+4 toggle income box
Ctrl+5 toggle thrones & events
Ctrl+6 toggle my troops in allied provinces
Ctrl+7 toggle allied troops in my provinces
Ctrl+8 toggle neighbors
Ctrl+9 toggle province names
Ctrl+0 toggle remote rituals
20
[[page 21]]
Provinces are designated by
both a name and a number. 
The number can be used to
quickly jump to provinces
with the 'g' key, for goto
province number.
All game mechanics in
Dominions 6 are based on
provinces.  Movement is
done from province to
province.  Units are
recruited on a province-by-
province basis.  Each
province has a number of
attributes that govern its
contribution to the game.
Province attributes
When a province is
selected, you can see its attributes in a box on the right side
of the screen, provided that you have some way of gaining
this information (either through scouts, dominion influence
or the proximity of friendly provinces).  If you don't have any
way to gather this information, all you'll get is the name and
map number of the province.  Most information about a
province will be unavailable unless you actually own it (it is
friendly to you, displaying your national flag).
If you have dominion over a province, you will be able to see
its income and scales, even if you do not control it.  Once you
have scouted a province, the province name and location is
remembered and you can always see it even if you do not
have friendly units in it.  For more information about how
much information you will receive on any given province,
see Scouting and Scrying on page 30.
The province attributes shown in the main province screen
break down as follows:
Terrain
Terrain is shown in the top of the province info box.  It is
very important for determining how valuable that province
will be in terms of income, resources, supply, and magic
sites.  Farmland tends to have high population (and
therefore income) but low resources and few magic sites. 
Highlands tend to be just the opposite.  See the Terrain Type
Bonus table for details.
There can be multiple terrains in the same province in which
case the bonuses add up.  The River terrain indicates an
abundance of freshwater in the province and applies to all
lands adjacent to the river.
Terrain also allows or restricts multi-province movement. 
See the section on Movement on page 47.
There is a major distinction between land and underwater
provinces.  Underwater provinces cannot be entered by
units without a special ability that allows it (such as
21
Terrain Population Resources Magic Sites
Plains - - -
Mountain Ranges - excellent many
Forest low high many
Highlands low high -
Swamp very low - many
Waste extremely low - abundant
Farm very high low few
River high - -
Sea low - -
Deep Sea very low high many
Kelp Forest high - -
Gorge low high abundant
Cave low - -
Drip Cave - excellent -
Crystal Cave very low high abundant
Forest Cave high - many
Bonuses for different terrain types
[[page 22]]
amphibian, aquatic, or water-breathing), they do not
contribute resources to fortresses on land and cannot be
crossed by flying units.  Units with sailing may cross water
provinces, but may not remain there at the end of a turn.
Population
Population determines income, and is affected by many
factors:  Growth/Death scales, patrolling, dominion,
pillaging, and random events.  The population in a province
sets the base income from that province:
Income base = Population / 100.
Click on the Population line to see the growth or death rate
of the province's population.
Income
A province contributes its income rating to the owner's
treasury every turn.  Income accumulates in the treasury. 
The number shown is after all modifications.  Income is
determined by multiple factors, including population,
dominion scales, fortress administration, and unrest.
Modified Income = (Population / 100) * (dominion scale modifiers) 
* (1 + fort administration / 200).
If the province has unrest, this number is:
Final Income = Modified Income / (1 + (unrest * 0.02).
If a province cannot trace an unbroken line of friendly
provinces back to a friendly fort, it does not produce income
that turn.  Taxation requires communication.  In disciple
games income can be traced through the territories of your
allies.
Resources
The resource value of a province, representing raw
materials needed to make weapons and armor.  Resources
are reduced by unrest, like income.  Resources are collected
by forts from neighboring provinces.  A province only
produces half of its potential resources for use in that
province unless it contains a fort.  The number shown is the
number actually being produced, not the potential.
Note that in the capsule screen, resources are displayed as
hammers.  As a province’s resources are allocated to
recruitment, the hammers in the capsule screen are
progressively greyed out.
Resource availability in a province is reduced by unrest
according to the formula
Final Resources = Resources / (1 + unrest*0.01)
Thus, an unrest level of 100 means a province produces only
one half of its normal resources.  Furthermore, no units may
be recruited in a province with an unrest level of 100 or
greater.
Building a fort in a province greatly increases the number of
resources available there.
Unrest Income Resources
10 83 % 91 %
25 67 % 80 %
50 50 % 67 %
75 40 % 57 %
100 33 % 50 %
150 25 % 40 %
200 20 % 33 %
Recruitment Points
Recruitment points represent the ability of populated areas
to concentrate the resources necessary to recruit and equip
forces.  Recruitment points depend on the population
present in a province, as follows:
Population Recruitment Points
0 20
1-5,000 pop/100
5,001-10,000 pop/200
10,001-20,000 pop/300
20,001-40,000 pop/400
40,001+ pop/500
Add up rows until you reach the population level in the
province. Example: A province has a population of 6000. It
will get 20+5000/100+1000/200 recruitment points.
The recruitment bonus for forts is then applied (e.g. +50%
for palisades).  Order scales also affect recruitment points
by +10% per step.
22
[[page 23]]
Dominion
This represents the religious dominance being exerted into
that province.  Only one pretender can have dominion in a
given province.  If it is positive, the dominion is yours and is
represented by a white candle.
Negative dominion is someone else's dominion, and is
represented by a black candle.  If you have a priest in a
province with hostile dominions you will also get to know
whose dominion it is.
Capsule screen
The income, resources, and dominion in a province can be
displayed (and toggled off) by hitting the [Ctrl-4] key.  The
hammers (resources) and standards (recruitment) become
progressively greyed out as the player allocates them for
production during a turn.  Turning on the capsule screen can
be a good way of scanning to see if there are any provinces
with underallocated resources or production.
Unrest
Unrest represents turmoil in a province and reduces both
income and resources there.  Unrest can be raised by
random events, enemy spies, blood hunting, magic sites,
certain targeted spells, or global enchantments.  Unrest can
be reduced by patrolling, province defense, order scales,
magic sites or random events.  Unrest will also negatively
affects the chances of capturing blood slaves, or of
successfully finding stealthy units by patrolling.
Once unrest reaches 100 it will no longer be possible to
recruit any units or commanders from the province.  The
maximum amount of unrest is 500 or one point per 10
population, so once the population reaches zero there can
no longer be any unrest.
Supplies
The supply rating of a province determines how many units
the province can support.  If more units occupy a province
than can be supplied by the indicated supply rating,
starvation occurs.  Units consume different amounts of
supply based on their physical size (see Units for more
information on this).  The supply rating in a province is
determined by multiple factors.
Population-based supply is calculated from the population
present in a province, modified by the Growth/Death and
Heat/Cold scales.  The first 15,000 population in a province
generates supplies at 1 supply point per 30 population. 
Additional population generates 1 supply point per 60
population.  This is modified by the Growth/Death scales
(first) and the Heat/Cold scales (second) to arrive at a
Population-Based Supply number.
Fortress-based supply depends on the province's proximity
to a fortress.  If the province in question is within four
provinces of a fort, fortress-based supply is added to the
population-based supply calculated above.  This depends on
the fortress' Admin rating (see section on fortresses below). 
Only the highest fortress-based supply is used if there is
more than one nearby fortress.
Supplies from forts = (Administration * 6) / (Distance + 1)
Example:  A province with 21,000 population has Growth 1
and Heat 3 dominions in it.  It generates 500 supply points
for the first 15,000 population, and 100 supply points for
the remaining 6,000 population for a total of 600 supply. 
Supplies are increased by 20% for the Growth 1 dominion,
increasing the total to 720.  The Heat 3 dominion, however,
reduces this amount by 30%, or 180 supply points, for a
population-based supply of 540.
The province is also three provinces away from a Castle
(Admin 30).  This generates an additional 30 supply points. 
The province has a final supply value of 540 + 30 = 570.
Supply Usage
The number of supplies being used by the units currently
occupying a province is shown under Supply Usage.  If there
23
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
C’tis is a swampy river valley surrounded by sandy deserts.  In the fertile valley, a sacral kingdom of lizard-like humanoids has formed.  
The kingdom is ancient by human standards and its wisdom and magical knowledge is great.  At the top of the society is the Lizard King 
and his Royal Heirs.  The king is the highest priest of C’tis.  Under the king are the High Priests with their sacred serpents, and the 
enigmatic Sauromancers, great mages of death and rebirth.  The lizards are herbivores, but have enslaved a race of carnivorous 
lizardmen who serve as soldiers and workers.  The C’tissians are somewhat slow in movement, but have thick hides that protect them 
from cuts and bruises.  Both lizard races have partial resistance to poison, but they are also cold-blooded and become exhausted very 
quickly when fighting in cold provinces.  The inhabitants of C’tis prefer to live in warm provinces.
[[page 24]]
are not enough supplies in a province to supply all of the
units currently occupying that province, starvation may
occur.
Starvation
If Supply Usage exceeds Supplies, starvation will occur. 
When this situation occurs a number of troops will start to
starve.  The supply consumption of the starving troops will
be about as large as the deficit in supplies.
Starving units will become starving the first month (-4
morale penalty) and have a 5% chance of getting diseased.  If
they should be affected by starvation while they are already
starving the chance of getting diseased is increased to 50%.
Diseased units will take damage each month as usual, until
they die.
Units with an appropriate survival skill have a 50% chance of
being completely unaffected by starvation and another 50%
chance of not getting diseased.
Starvation ends as soon as a there is no longer a lack of
supplies, but diseased units will not get rid of the diseased
condition.
Defense
Defense indicates the level of provincial defense present in
a province.  Raising provincial defense costs an amount of
gold equivalent to the new level purchased.  (Thus, level 2
costs 2 gold, going from level 2 to level 3 costs 3 gold, going
from level 10 to level 11 costs 11 gold, and so on.)  The first
level of provincial defense is gain automatically and for free. 
Additional benefits are gained at levels 10, 15 and 20. 
Provincial defense costs no upkeep, and is fully restored
after a battle if the owner does not lose control of the
province.
Provincial defense levels can be raised by clicking on the
word Defense in the main province screen.  Shortcut key [d]. 
Provincial defense levels cannot be voluntarily reduced. 
However, it takes at least 10 population to support each
point of province defense.  Province defense will be
automatically reduced to a level which can be supported by
the population of the province.
Corpses
The number of unburied corpses in a province.  This is
important for some spells (e.g. Raven Feast) and for raising
undead. You can only see this information if you have a
death mage or an undead priest in the province.  If the
nation's normal priests can reanimate undead (a special
property of certain nations), they can see the number of
corpses, too.
Dominion scales
Dominion scales are separate from dominion, although the
two are related (see chapter on Dominion for more specific
information).  The level of dominion scales in a province is
shown by icons/text in the main province window.
Much of this information can also be seen in the Nation
Overview screen [F1], which will also show commanders and
their locations.  You can set defense and give orders in this
screen, as well as use it to go directly to a province in the
main map.  This makes it quite useful.  New players should
get their [F1] fingers in shape.  The specific finger used to
access this screen may or may not be important.
National summary
Regardless of which province is selected, the national
summary will be at the top of the screen.  At the top is the
name of your pretender god.  Below the god's name is the
treasury that lists the total amount of money your nation
has.  Income is the total income prior to paying upkeep costs,
which are shown in parentheses.  In the upper left-hand
corner is a symbol denoting the season.  If you mouse over
this it will tell you the exact season in the game and the
current turn number.  Press the Treasury button to see a list
of all gold you have spent so far this turn.
All units in the game (except for most summoned units) cost
upkeep each turn equal to their gold cost divided by 15. 
Sacred units and slaves cost half as much upkeep (gold cost
divided by 30).  Press the Income button to see a list of all
income and upkeep costs.
Magic gem inventory
Your gem inventory’s contents are displayed in the national
summary, and you can go to the gem inventory screen by
24
[[page 25]]
clicking on any of the gem icons.  The current monthly gem
income is show in parenthesis after each gem type.
Forts
Forts are structures which exist on the map and can be
upgraded.  Forts serve as collection points for resources,
supply depots for distribution to surrounding provinces, and
shelter for troops in the event of a siege.  Each fortress type
has different attributes.
Fortress types
The numbers for “Build” indicate gold/months required. 
Because each level of fort must be built on the previous one,
the months listed are for that specific stage only.  Thus, it
would take 1000 gold and five months to build a palisade,
and then another 600 gold and three months to upgrade it
to a fortress.  The attributes don’t stack, so the admin,
recruitment, supply, and wall integrity of the previous fort
are replaced by the new one
The era (Early, Middle, or Late) of the game dictates what
fort levels are available to most nations.  The standard forts
are: Early Age: fortress; Middle Age: castle; Late Age:
citadel.  Some nations (like Yomi) can only build primitive
forts, while others (like EA Ermor) can build advanced forts
compared to the standard of a particular era.  The Nation
Overview screen will inform you if the nation you are
viewing has primitive or advanced forts.
Some nations, such as Marignon and Ulm in the middle era,
have masons who are able to construct forts one level
higher than normal.  This is not specifically a nation trait, but
simply a trait on a particular commander that happens to be
available to that nation at that time.  A commander with the
mason trait can be used to construct higher level forts.  The
grand citadel is only available to those nations who can
construct a citadel and also have a mason.  It has the same
icon as the citadel.
Admin
The admin value of a fort determines the percentage of
resources from neighboring provinces that the fortress can
collect.  It also propagates supply into nearby provinces.  The
formula for this is (Administration * 6) / (Distance + 1).  Thus,
a fortress with admin 50 contributes 150 supply to adjacent
provinces.  Four provinces is the maximum distance for this
supply propagation.
Administration also increases the income of a province by
Admin / 2%.  Thus, a fort with an Admin value of 30 would
increase the income by 15% of any province in which it is
built.
The admin value also propagates supplies to nearby provinces
Distance Supply
0 400 %
1 200 %
2 133 %
3 100 %
4 80 %
Defense
The defense value of a fort represents the number of points
of damage that must be done to a fort by an enemy siege
before it can be attacked.  Each turn a comparison is made
between the strength of the sieging and besieged forces at a
fortress.  The difference between these forces determines
the amount of damage done to the fortress' defense value.
Supply
The supply value of a fortress determines only how many
units can be supplied inside that fortress in the event of a
siege.  It does not affect the distribution of supply to
surrounding provinces.  Each turn a fortress is under siege,
its supply value is divided by the length of the siege to
determine the supply points available on that turn to the
besieged units.  Thus, on the fifth turn of a siege of a fortress
with a supply value of 100, the fortress provides besieged
units with 20 supply.
25
Name Build Cost Build Time Admin Com. Points Rec. Points Supply Storage Wall Integrity
Palisades 1000 5 15 +0 +50 % 150 200
Fortress 600 3 30 +1 +75 % 750 500
Castle 600 3 45 +1 +100 % 2500 1000
Citadel 600 3 60 +2 +125 % 7500 1500
Grand Citadel 1000 5 70 +2 +150 % 10000 2000
[[page 26]]
Castle Guards
and Wall
Defenders
Forts also have
defense (termed
Castle Guards
and Wall
Defenders) that
will help defend
the fort when it is
being stormed. 
The Wall
Defenders will be
stationed on the walls and the Castle Guards will start
behind the gate of the castle.  These units will be replenished
for each fight, just like normal province defence.
Castle Guards and Wall Defenders contribute to the repair
strength of the defending army (see Sieges, page 71)
Wall Defenders also have the following attributes:
* never run out of ammunition.
* can be attacked from the stairs inside the walls, or by Flying or
Ethereal units (or missiles – see below).
* 20% increased missile range.
* some protection from missiles (see Missile Combat, page
65).  The wall has the same defense as a tower shield, but it
has a Protection value of 30.  The defenders use the best of
their own shield or the wall defense.
The number of Castle Guards and Wall Defenders depends
on the fort level.
Fortress statistics
The statistics for each fort are listed when you click on the
Fortification button in the province interface (also the [f]
key).  Some forts give bonuses to Commander Points and/or
Recruitment Points, as listed in the section on fortress types.
How forts collect resources
The calculations for provincial resources can seem
confusing.  The most important thing to remember is that a
province’s resource pool [see page 22] only consists of
half of that province’s potential resource production as long
as it has no fort.  A province will only gain the benefit of its
full production when that province has a fort.  Furthermore,
once a province has a fort, the fort uses its Admin value to
draw resources from adjacent provinces, within certain
restrictions.  These are:
* A land fort cannot draw resources from an adjacent sea
province and vice versa.
* Forts cannot draw resources from adjacent provinces that also
contain forts.
* No fort can draw resources from an adjacent enemy province.
Once you take these factors into account, it is relatively
straightforward to calculate how provincial resources are
affected by fort production.  We follow this with an example,
which was discovered to probably have been written by
Ulmish masons while preparing a plan of attack against
Arcoscephale during the many wars that
plagued the Middle Era.
In the Early Spring of Year 5 of the
Ascension Wars, Arcoscephale was
building a fort in the province of Gaieta. 
Before the fort was constructed, the
resource situation looked as it does on
the campaign map on this page.  The
province names and resource counts are
listed. The black/white colors are simply
for readability and have no other special
meaning.  Note that Gaieta has 31
resources available for use itself, and is
adjacent to six other provinces: Tenvir,
Solian, Livenmark, Lyratos, Cacevic
Highlands, and Yrik Balkor.  The last two
26
[[page 27]]
provinces are mountain provinces and have comparatively
more resources available.
After four months, the fort was constructed through the
efforts of Asios, the Hoplite Commander, at a cost of 1000
gold.  The resource picture changed to the one depicted
below.
How did the province of Gaieta become such a production
powerhouse?  For several reasons.  First, the province was
producing only half of its potential resources before, as it
had no fort present.  Recall that when there is no fort
located in the province, it has only half of that province’s
potential resource production.  Now that it has a Palisades
located there, Gaieta is able to produce
to its full potential of 61 resources.  But
this is still much less than the 125
shown!  This is because the Palisades
has an Admin value of 15, meaning it
draws 15% of the resources present in
each adjacent province.  But if you add
the resources shown on the map that
are adjacent to Gaieta, and take 15% of
these, you still don’t get to 125.  What is
happening?  The answer is that the
Admin value of a fort draws from the
total potential resources of each
adjacent province.  Thus, Yrik Balkor
has only 46 resources available for
production in the province itself, but it
has its full potential (92 resources)
available for collection by the fort in
Gaieta, and thus contributes 15% of 92,
which is 13.8.  Now you can see how the
Palisades reaches an astonishing 125 in
resource production: 62 + (54 + 32 + 80
+ 76 + 98 + 92) * 0.15 = 64.8.  With some
rounding, this becomes 63 and when
added to 62 equals 125 resources
available here.
In Late Spring of Year 6 of the Ascension
Wars, Asios the Hoplite Commander
completed another Palisades, this time
in Yrik Balkor, and the resource map our
scouts obtained changed again.
Of course Yrik Balkor’s resources went
up dramatically, but why did Gaieta’s
drop?  This is due to bullet point 2 on [page 26]: Forts
cannot draw resources from adjacent provinces that also
contain forts.  Thus, Gaieta loses the 15% of the 92
resources that were previously available for it from Yrik
Balkor, which is 13.8, rounded down to 13, and 125 – 13 =
112, which is the new total for Gaieta.  As for Yrik Balkor, it
cannot draw from Gaieta, either.  It does, however, draw
from the remainder of its adjacent provinces, including the
ones Gaieta is drawing from, if they are adjacent to both
(like Tenvir and Cacevic Highlands).  In Yrik Balkor’s case,
this is (98 + 78 + 48 + 78 + 54) * 0.15 which equals 53.4, with
rounding becomes 52 and when added to the base 92
produced by Yrik Balkor, equals 144 resources.
27
[[page 28]]
What if Asios built a fort in Pantokrator’s Bounty, across the
river from Fowanshire? Could it collect Fowanshire’s
resources? Yes. Even though the river is only crossable at
the bridge, river traffic on small craft is sufficient to allow
for resources to flow to the fort.
In Late Fall of Year 8 of the Ascension Wars, an army led by
Balthazar, the Commander of Ulm, and his legions of
Infantry of Ulm, Black Plate Infantry, and Guardians, as well
as a squad of Sappers, besieged and stormed the forts at
Yrik Balkor, Gaieta, and Arcoscephale itself, for which
Balthazar gained great renown and reputation as a hero of
Ulm of the Middle Era.  His deeds remain legendary.
Temples
Temples are the second of the three buildings you can
construct in Dominions 6.  Temples help you spread your
dominion, either by directly inducing dominion spread
[Exception: Mictlan, Early and Late Eras] or by providing a
location for blood sacrifices (which are only available to
certain nations – see the Dominion chapter).  Temples also
give priests a bonus when preaching.
A temple can only be built in a friendly province.  If an enemy
takes control of a province with another nation’s temple in
it, the temple is immediately razed.  If there was a temple in
a province you captured, the razing will be reported in the
turn’s events, along with the capture.  Only one temple can
exist in a province at a time.  Temples cost 600 gold to build,
although there are exceptions.  Man and Marverni only pay
half this cost for a temple.  Pangeaea pays half in a forest
province, while late age Gath pays double everywhere.
Clicking on the Temple button on the lower right of the
screen tells you how much dominion you spread each turn
and how likely it is to be successful.  This is broken down into
the number of spread chances per month.  Each temple can
spread dominion, as can the pretender, prophet, and
nation's home province.  All of this is explained in detail in
the Dominion chapter.
Laboratories
Laboratories (or labs) are the last building type available. 
Labs serve as magic gem collection points and centers of
research.  They allow mages in that province to perform the
Research order, enable transfer of gems from the national
inventory, and allow the casting of ritual spells.  For a
detailed description of these game elements, see Magic
(starting on page 32).  Ritual spells can only be cast in a
province with a laboratory.
Labs cost 600 gold to build, and some nations are able to
build cheaper labs, such as Arcoscephale, as well as
Pangeaea who pay half in forest provinces (just like their
temples).
Magic Sites
Magic sites are not buildings per se (although there are
some sites which are buildings, such as the Firbolg Fortress
and Jervellan Wall) but rather locations within a province
that possess some special attribute, like magic gem
production, unique unit recruitment, or other benefits.  A
province may have multiple magic sites, not all of which may
be visible at once.  Magic sites are more likely to be found in
certain terrains like forests, wastes and deep seas and less
likely in certain other terrains like plains and farmlands.
Magic sites do not necessarily appear when you capture a
province.  Instead, the sites must be discovered by
searching.  There are four levels of difficulty.  A mage must
have skill in the magic path of the site equal to the difficulty
level of the site in order to find it when using the Search for
Magic Sites order.  Thus, a level 3 Nature mage will find any
difficulty 1, 2 or 3 sites in a province when he/she searches,
but will not find a difficulty 4 site.  When searching, level 4 in
a path is the highest level ever required to find a site.  There
are spells which will automatically reveal all sites of a given
path in a province (for example, Haruspex reveals all Nature
magic sites), or even all magic sites, period (Acashic
Knowledge).
Some sites (like the Void Gate) allow certain types of units to
enter them for certain benefits.  Entering such sites is a
movement order available to eligible commanders.
Sites which permit the recruitment of national units (such as
the Forest of Avalon) only
grant this ability to that
nation (in this example,
Man).  Enemy players who
capture such a site will still
collect the magic gems
produced by it (if any) but
will not be able to recruit
the special units.
There is no guarantee that
28
[[page 29]]
a site will be usable to a player when found.  A Cave may
allow a Blood mage to recruit demons, but if the player has
no Blood mages, he will not be able to use it.
A magic site may have some additional requirement before
it becomes useful.  For example, the Library allows the
recruitment of sages, but not until you build a laboratory. 
The role-playing reasons for this should be obvious.
Not all magic sites have beneficial effects.  Some are sources
of chaos, death, or other negative powers.  These may cause
unrest or other ill effects, and will happen whether or not
the magic site causing the trouble has been discovered.
Province Defense
Province defense (PD) is a way of protecting a province
without actually stationing an army there.  Defense is
purchased at a cost of whatever the new defense level will
be.   You will get the first level of province defence for free,
but the rest has to be purchased by spending gold equal to
the level you are purchasing.  So to buy the second level of
province defense costs 2 gold, while the tenth costs 10 (and
to get to 10, you have to buy the intervening levels as well,
so ultimately a PD of 10 costs 2+3+4+5+6+7+8+9+10 = 54).
At defense level 1, a nation gets a commander and some
troops.  Each level of defense thereafter gives you more
troops, which are shown as you increase your province
defense.  The maximum level of province defense is 100.  At
level 20 you get additional types of commanders and troops.
Every 10 points of province defense reduce unrest by 1
point in that province per turn.  So 53 points of province
defense would result is a recurring unrest reduction of 5
each turn.
Starting at level 15, province defense will have a chance of
detecting stealthy units in that province.  Each point of
province defense above 15 gains one point of patrolling
strength, so that a PD level of 25 has a patrol strength of 11. 
This is about the same as an equivalent number of patrolling
infantry units.
A province can only support provincial defense if it has
sufficient population.  For every point of province defense,
there must be 10 points of population.  If this is not the case,
province defense will be reduced accordingly at the end of
the turn.  This is the only way in which province defense can
be reduced, other than having the province be captured,
which wipes out all existing province defense, or
relinquished (in disciple games), which reduces provincial
defense by 25%.  Once you have built province defense, you
cannot reduce it in future turns.  The down arrow does not
work then.
Certain undead nations (e.g. Ermor - Ashen Empire) can
have province defence without having any population to
support it.  In provinces without a fort they will have 1 point
of PD (usually only a single undead commander), in
provinces with a fort they can have up to 100 PD (consisting
of undead soldiers).
Unrest
Unrest represents people being unhappy with the ruler of
the province.  This can be the result of many different
unhappiness-generating events:  a difference between the
nation which controls the province and the one that exerts
dominion over it will do it, since the people worship one god
but are ruled by another.  Blood hunting will definitely do it
– imagine how happy you would be if someone came
through your village and rounded up a bunch of young
virgins for a blood sacrifice.  Enemy spies and bards can do it
because that is their job.  Random events such as ill omens
can cause unrest to increase.  You should consider whether
an ill omen would make you uneasy as well.
Unrest reduces the amount of income and resources a
province generates.  A province with unrest of 100 or
greater will not permit the recruitment of new units.  Thus,
you can shut down an opponent’s production by
destabilizing his or her provinces.
Mercenaries
Mercenaries are units who are willing to fight for gold.  They
sell their services to the highest bidder.  They are hired for a
period of three months (turns).  Clicking on the Mercenaries
button will display the mercenaries available for hire, as well
as currently hired mercenaries, their employer (indicated by
the national flag) and the time of service remaining.  When a
mercenary band’s contract runs out, it will again become
available for hire, except on that turn only, the previous
employer’s bid counts double.  It is only good for that turn,
and if the mercenaries are hired by someone else, the bonus
is lost and instead that nation will gain the bonus when those
mercenaries complete their contract.
Some nations get a discount on the price for certain
29
[[page 30]]
mercenary bands and some nations (e.g. Ermor - Ashen
Empire) must pay more for most bands.
Scouting and Scrying
Players will not necessarily have any information about a
province besides what it depicted on the actual map.  There
are many ways to gather information about provinces, and
these methods differ in what information is learned.
Scout in province
Reveals owner, military info, fort constructions, and the
province history. Reveals temperature of current and
neighboring provinces
Priest in province
As scout + dominion strength and dominion owner
Spy in province
As scout + income, supplies, magic sites, unrest, province
defense level and more accurate military info than an ordinary
scout
Dominion in province
Reveals owner, income, temperature. Reveals dominion
strength of neighboring provinces
Scrying a province
Reveals owner, very accurate military info, income, supplies,
magic sites, province defense level, history, temperature,
dominion strength, dominion owner, fort constructions, unrest
Owning a province
Reveals everything about the province.  Reveals location and
name for provinces 1-3 steps away.  Early era only reveals
names of neighboring provinces, middle era reveals name of
provinces two steps away, late era reveals the names of
provinces up to three steps away.  Reveals owner, unreliable
military info and temperature for neighboring provinces.
AI Opponents
When you start a new game you get to choose how many
and what level of AI controlled opponents you want.  The AI
players play using the same rules as human players, except
for any possible resource bonuses depending on the level
that has been selected for them.  See the AI Bonus table
below to see what kind of boost (or penalty) they get to their
income.  This bonus applies to money, resources,
recruitment points and magic.  Note that there is no bonus
to commander recruitment rate or to holy points.
AI Name Bonus
Easy AI -30%
Normal AI 0
Difficult AI +30%
Mighty AI +60%
Master AI +100%
Impossible AI +150%
Thus killing an AI army will really set them back the amount
of gold it cost to create it. Although they might get the gold
back quicker than a human player if they are above Normal
difficulty level and thus get a resource bonus.
The AI players also get an information bonus and knows
which countries are owned by which players without
needing scouts everywhere.  This is seen as a fair shortcut as
experienced human players are very good at guessing this
without the need of that many scouts.
The Pretender
Dominions 6 is about the struggle between pretenders to
ascend to godhood.  Thus, the pretender is the embodiment
of the spirit of the nation.  But there are many ways to aspire
to godhood, and you have a lot of leeway to shape exactly
what kind of pretender will lead your nation.  The pretender
will determine how much dominion you can have in a
province, how fast your dominion spreads, what type of
scales rule the land, and what bless effects your sacred units
will have.  Pretenders also have the ability to research and
cast spells, and even forge magic items and fight in battle. 
Pretenders are the most important single aspect of any
Dominions game.
The important points to remember about pretenders are:
* A pretender is a commander unit, and moves on the strategic
map and battlefield
* The magic paths chosen for the Pretender affect which spells
he will be able to use
* Magic paths chosen also determine what Bless effects, if any,
30
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
During the subjugation of C’tis, lizard soldiers were recruited into the Ermorian ranks.  Lizard Auxiliares have since been a regular part 
of the Ermorian army.  The lizards are armed as Hastati, but wear ring mail cuirass of C’tissian design, and use round shields instead of 
the tower shields standard to the Imperial Legions.
[[page 31]]
you can choose for your nation’s Sacred units
* The pretender’s magic paths also affect what divine spells the
priests of the nation can cast.
* The dominion scales you choose will determine what effects
will be felt in provinces under your dominion
* The dominion strength you choose will determine how easily
your dominion spreads
* When a pretender is killed, he or she can be brought back by
priests of his nation using the Call God command.  This may
take some time.  He or she will also lose some magic skill or a
point of dominion.
Creating a Pretender
Besides choosing a nation, creating a pretender is the most
significant decision you’ll make in Dominions 6.
Each nation starts out with 450 points to create a pretender
god.  These points are spent on the three categories below: 
physical form, magic, and dominion.  A fourth category, The
Awakening, is a way in which you can trade the later
appearance of your pretender for more build points at the
outset.
Physical form
A pretender must have a physical form, like a titan or giant
squid, which you choose based on the ones available to the
nation you have selected.  Some nations have more choices,
and some relatively fewer.  Not all pretenders are available
to all nations.  This is because those pretenders did not exist
for that nation historically.
Each pretender has a different set of attributes, which can
be examined by right-clicking on the pretender in the
selection screen.  Some are giants.  Some are flying
goddesses.  Some are weird polyp things that can only live
underwater.  Others are folks just like you and me, only with
three heads and magical powers.  They all have various
attributes just like regular units, while some have special
attributes that merit further explanation.  These are all
attributes inherent to the physical form in question – they
cannot be conferred or purchased separately.
Many pretenders have an inherent point cost as part of their
physical form.  For example, the Phoenix, a pretender that
looks like a giant heron, costs 110 points.  If you choose that
one, you will have 340 points left to spend on dominion and
scales.
Immortal Pretenders
Some pretenders (Vampire Queen, various manner of
Liches, the Phoenix for obvious reasons, and others) are
immortal.  There are two kinds of immortality in Dominions
6: immortality and dominion immortality.
Dominion immortality (e.g. the Phoenix) means that if a
pretender is killed while in a province with friendly
dominion, it will simply re-appear in their nation’s home
province.  If they die in a province that does not contain
friendly dominion, they are subject to Call God just like
non-immortal pretenders.
Immortality (e.g. the Master Lich) means that a pretender is
fully immortal and can even die outside its dominion and still
re-form.
Reforming a pretender’s body (whether immortal or
dominion immortal) takes some time, usually about three
months, but is dependent on monster type.  If the pretender
is soul slain, it will not reform and must be called back by
priests just like any other dead pretender god.  Reforming
the body usually gets rid of most afflictions.  Immortals do
not heal afflictions more than other units otherwise.
An immortal unit that dies on a remote plane (e.g. the Void
or Inferno) will not be able to utilize its immortality.
Immobile Pretenders
Some pretenders (Monolith, Fountain of Blood, and others)
cannot move.  This means they have no inherent movement
ability.  But usually they can still be transported by
teleportation rituals.  Some immobile pretenders
(Monument, Geyser) are just too large and cannot be moved
even by teleportation.  Note that some teleportation like
rituals (e.g. Wind Ride) isn't true teleportation and requires
the caster to be mobile.
Designing a good immobile pretender can be a challenge,
but they have their advantages.  Most immobile pretenders
have a low physical form cost.
Dragon Pretenders
When players select a dragon for their pretender, a wizard
shows up.  This is not a bug.  Research has shown again and
again that dragon pretenders don’t change into dragon form
until they are wounded.  The pretender will be displayed as a
wizard until he changes shape either by using the change
31
[[page 32]]
shape order or by being wounded in combat.  Prior to that,
he remains in wizard form because it was easier to cast
spells with hands instead of dragon claws.
Trinities
Some pretenders are Trinities, one being split into three
entities. The three entities share part of their magic abilities,
but lose some of their powers when not together. If two
entities in a trinity are present, they lose some magic power
while a lone entity will have severely reduced magic abilities.
Different Trinities have slightly different effects on being
apart. The separate entities in a trinity have reduced
research abilities, but all of them can research at the same
time. If one entity in the trinity dies it can be called back in
half the normal time (see Call God, page 36).
Magic
Some pretenders begin with skills in magical paths – others
don’t.  This is listed in the character screen for that physical
form.  For example, the Great Mother begins with Nature 2
and Earth 1.  Some pretenders don’t begin with any skills in
magic paths.  Regardless of starting abilities, magic skills can
be purchased in the Magic screen.  The cost is in the table
"Cost for skill point in a path".  Note that if the first skill
chosen is in a new path with no magic skill yet selected, the
cost is the pretender’s “New Path Cost.”
Cost for skill point in a path
1st 8
2nd 16
3rd 24
4th 32
5th 40
6th 48
7th 56
8th 64
9th 72
10th 80
These costs are cumulative, so that increasing a magical path
from 1 to 4 costs 72 points.
Note that this refers to the numbers of skills added by you in
that path, not the actual total skill.  In other words, since the
Great Mother begins with Nature 2, and you want to bump
her up to Nature 3, that only costs 8 points because that’s
the first skill increase by you in that path.  Thus, starting with
a pretender who already has skills in paths you want can be
a significant cost savings.  Of course, this is partly accounted
for in the point cost of that physical form.
Example:  The Carrion Dragon begins with Death 1 and
Nature 1.  You decide you want to increase his skill to Death
4, Nature 4, and Fire 2.  That means you need to select three
skills in the same path (Death) for a cost of 48, three skills in
the Nature path, for a further cost of 48 (you have now
spent 96), and 2 skills in Fire.  However, because the Carrion
Dragon does not start with any Fire, selecting Fire is a new
path purchase and thus the first skill in Fire costs 80 points,
as listed in his character screen.  To get him to Fire 2 costs
another 16 points.  The total cost of magic for this pretender
is thus 192 points.  Magic can be very expensive.
Divine Magic
A pretender’s magic paths also determine what divine spells
that nation’s priests can cast.  For more information on
divine magic, see page 81 .
Bless Effects
Each nation has a number of Sacred units, most of which can
only be recruited in the nation’s home province, generally
because there is a magic site there which permits their
recruitment.  Sacred units are specific to that nation:  if
another nation captures that province and magic site, it
cannot recruit those units.
The main advantage to sacred units is that they can be
Blessed.  Blessing is a level 1 holy spell, and thus can be cast
by any priest.  It is cast only on the battlefield.  A blessed unit
gains three advantages:
* +1 morale
* All the bless effects conferred by his nation’s pretender, chosen
upon creation
* All the bless effects conferred by any Thrones of Ascension
claimed by the nation or disciple nations
Bless points to buy bless effects with become available
32
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
The Arch Bishops of the Sacred Shroud are the highest ranking priests of the Awakening God.  They wear holy replicas of the Sacred 
Shroud of the Prophet.  This sacred piece of cloth gives them unsurpassed healing abilities.  They have all but replaced the old Pontifices 
as religious magistrates of the Empire.
[[page 33]]
when a pretender has a skill of 2 or more in any magic path. 
These effects are chosen from a list of possible effects
depending on what magic skills the Pretender has.
In general, every skill level above one in a path equals one
bless point.  (Thus, an Air 2, Death 4, Nature 6 pretender
receives 1 + 3 + 5 bless points for allocation.)  Some nations
or pretenders may receive bless bonuses which translate
into additional bless points.  (For example, Marignon,
Conquerors of the Sea receives 3 extra bless points to buy
bless effects for.)
Bless effects cost bless points equal to the magic skill
requirements for that effect.  E.g. An effect that requires
Astral 3 & Fire 1 would cost 4 bless points to buy. 
Sometimes a bless effect also has a scale requirement, but
this does not affect the cost.
Some bless effects are always active (e.g. unaging and
larger). They are called passive blesses.
Fire Bless effects
Fire 1 Superior Morale (+1 Mor)
Fire 1 & Death 1 Wasteland Survival *
Fire 2 Attack Skill (+1 Att)
Fire 2 Fire Resistance
Fire 4 Inspirational Presence *
Fire 4 Righteous Wrath
Fire 5 Death Explosion
Fire 5 Heat Aura
Fire 6 Fire Shield
Fire 7 Flaming Weapons
Fire 8 & Astral 4 Unbearable Splendour
Air Bless Effects
Air 1 Precision (+1 Prec)
Air 2 Shock Resistance
Air 2 Farshot
Air 3 Awareness
Air 4 Swiftness
Air 4 Storm Flight
Air 5 Wind Walker *
Air 5 & Earth 1 Weightlessness
Air 6 Air Shield
Air 7 Thunder Weapons
Air 8 Charged Bodies
Air 9 Flight
Water Bless Effects
Water 1 & Cold Scale 1 Winter’s Gift *
Water 1 & Nature 1 Swamp Survival *
Water 2 Cold Resistance
Water 2 Swimming *
Water 2 Defense Skill (+1 Def)
Water 5 Chill Aura
Water 5 Slow Weapons
Water 6 & Fire 2 Vitriol Weapons
Water 6 Water Breathing *
Water 7 & Cold Scale 1 Frost Mist Weapons
Water 9 & Magic Scale 1 Quickness
Earth Bless Effects
Earth 1 Mountain Survival*
Earth 2 Reinvigoration (+1 Reinv)
Earth 2 Strength of the Earth (+1 Str)
Earth 4 Unbreakable
Earth 4 & Nature 3 Larger *
Earth 5 Reconstruction
Earth 5 Resilience of the Earth
Earth 6 Hard Skin
Earth 7 Fortitude
Astral Bless Effects
Astral 1 Arcane Command *
Astral 2 Magic Resistance (+1 MR)
Astral 3 & Death 1 Spirit Sight
Astral 3 & Fire 1 Solar Weapons
Astral 4 Far Caster
Astral 4 Arcane Finesse
Astral 5 Magic Weapons
Astral 6 Twist Fate
Astral 7 & Misfortune Scale 1 Fateweaving
Astral 8 & Magic Scale 2 Etherealness
Death Bless Effects
Death 1 Undying
Death 1 Undead Command *
Death 2 & Death Scale 2 Half Dead
Death 3 Mending Bones *
Death 4 Withering Weapons
Death 5 Stygian Flesh
Death 6 Reforming Flesh
Death 7 Reanimators
Death 8 Death Weapons
Death 8 Fear
33
[[page 34]]
Nature Bless Effects
Nature 1 Resilient (+1 HP)
Nature 1 Low Light Vision
Nature 2 Poison Resistance
Nature 2 Forest Survival *
Nature 3 & Magic Scale 1 Unaging *
Nature 4 & Death Scale 1 Poison Weapons
Nature 5 Recuperation *
Nature 5 Berserker
Nature 6 Barkskin
Nature 7 Regeneration
Glamour Bless effects
Glamour 1 Undreaming *
Glamour 1 Heroism (+50% XP) *
Glamour 2 Quiet Stride *
Glamour 3 True Sight *
Glamour 3 Blur
Glamour 6 Obfuscate *
Glamour 6 & Fire 2 Awe
Glamour 7 Displacement
Glamour 7 Dread
Glamour 8 & Luck Scale 2 Luck
Blood Bless Effects
Blood 1 Strong Vitae (+1 HP)
Blood 2 Strength of the Flesh (+1 Str)
Blood 3 Strong Blood
Blood 4 Enchanted Blood
Blood 4 Blood Surge
Blood 5 Blood Bond
Blood 6 Unholy Weapons
Blood 7 Blood Vengeance
Blood 8 & Death 4 Vampiric Weapons
Effects marked with an asterisk are passive blesses.
Bold effects are “incarnate only” which means that they only
apply if the pretender is awake as well as alive.
When you are constructing your pretender, the Magic
screen will list all of the bless effects to which your
selections have entitled you.  Look at the bottom of the
screen.  The +1 morale effect is not listed because it is
common to all pretenders.
Pretenders also gain Indirect Magic bonuses (see the section
entitled Magic).  Pretenders and Disciples are Sacred units
and are automatically blessed when they are in their
dominion.  However, they cannot be blessed outside their
dominion.
Example:  Your pretender is Neter of the Sun, which starts
with Fire 2 and Astral 1.  You decide to boost the magic
paths to Fire 4 and Astral 4.  You are playing Machaka, so
you get no further bonuses and thus you have six bless
points to spend on bless effects.  You will be facing Ermor, so
you choose Solar Weapons, which costs four, leaving you
with two bless points.  You spend these points on Magic
Resistance.  Your blessed units will gain both of these
effects.  In addition, all of your blessed units will have +1
morale, because this is an effect common to all bless spells.
Dominion
Two separate things fall under the category of dominion: 
maximum dominion and dominion scales.  For more
information about dominion and its spread, see the section
on Dominion.
Cost for Dominion Candles
1st 7
2nd 14
3rd 21
4th 28
5th 35
6th 42
7th 49
8th 56
9th 63
The cost to add dominion strength is calculated for each
additional candle chosen, above the pretender’s base
dominion strength.  Thus, a pretender who starts with
dominion 3 would use 7 design points to increase to
dominion 4, and 14 more to go to dominion 5.  Every
pretender starts with at least Dominion 1, and the maximum
is 10, so you can only ever choose 9 new candles, and thus
the table stops there.
Scales
Dominion scales are the representation of the effect that
the belief in one’s pretender god affects not only the
populace but the very fabric of a province.  When creating a
pretender, you choose the way in which your religious belief
changes the cosmic forces in provinces where your
dominion holds sway.
Each scale has a favorable side and an unfavorable side.  For
34
[[page 35]]
example, Growth is the favorable side of the Growth/Death
scale.  You can guess which side Death is.  For each tip of the
scale, bonuses or penalties accrue to the province under the
sway of that dominion.
You can gain extra points for pretender creation by choosing
unfavorable scales.  Scales tip both ways, which is why
they’re called scales.
* Each left-click of a scale costs 40 points.
* Each right-click of a scale gains you 40 points.
Exception:  Each click of the Heat/Cold scale (either way)
away from a race's preferred scale gains you 40 points per
click, but only for the first 3 clicks.
Example:  Machaka is a race that prefers Heat 2 scales. 
When you start building a pretender for Machaka, the
Dominion screen will automatically start at Heat 2.  Each
click of the scales (either way) will gain you points as you
move to an unfavorable dominion scale.  Either Heat 1 or
Heat 3 will gain 40 points for Machaka, at the expense of
decreasing tax revenues and supply (see table below).  Some
abilities like Ice Protection are dependent on Heat/Cold
scales as well.
Scales range from -5 to +5, but usually they can be tipped a
maximum of only two to either side.
Certain pretenders are attuned to one or two scales and can
tip these scales one step further. E.g. the Master Lich is
attuned to the death scale and can raise the death scale to 3.
In turn the opposite scale (growth) is more difficult to raise
and can only be raised to a maximum of 1.  Some nation are
also attuned to certain scales and can raise these scales one
or two steps further.  Pretender and Nation scale
attunements can cancel out each other, but they cannot
stack and raise the limit above 1.
The bonus/penalty listed in the Dominion Scales table is per
click.  So clicking twice in the direction of Order gives you
Order 2, and increases your income by a total of 4% while
decreasing random events by 4%.  Like in the magic screen,
the scales screen displays the cumulative effect of your
choices.  Note that extreme scale values of 4 or more are not
recommended as they usually bring certain unwanted side
effects, you can read about these in the Dominion chapter.
Example:  The Carrion Dragon from the above example
begins with dominion 2.  Because the dragon costs 160
points for his physical form, and you spent 192 points on
magic, that leaves you with 98 points for dominion and
scales selection.  Increasing dominion to 5 costs 42 points,
leaving you with 56 points for scales.  Because changing
your scales costs 40 points for each click, you can only
change one scale, and by only one click.  You can gain more
points for pretender design through The Awakening (see
below), or reassign some of the points you used for magic or
dominion to give yourself enough points for scales.
Some nations (see Nations list) prefer certain heat or cold
settings.  They suffer penalties when outside of their
preferred environment, just like nations without a preferred
temperature setting suffer penalties when the environment
has heat/cold scales other than zero.  In the past, these
nations still received extra points for tipping the scales one
way or the other.  Now, they only get extra points for tipping
35
Scale Effect
Order Increases income by 3%, Resources +2%, Recruitment +10%, Unrest reduction +1, 2% fewer random events
Turmoil Decreases income by 3%, Resources -2%, Recruitment -10%, Unrest reduction -1, 2% more random events
Productivity Increases income by 3% and resources by 15%
Sloth Decreases income by 3% and resources by 15%
Heat/Cold Each step of heat/cold level away from a race's ideal level decreases tax revenues by 5% and decreases supplies by 10%
Growth Increases population growth by 0.2% per month, Increases supplies by 10%, Increases income by 1%
Death Decreases population growth by 0.2% per month, Decreases supplies by 10%, Decreases income by 1%
Fortune 5% more random events, Chance of a random event being good increased by 10%
Misfortune 5% more random events, Chance of a random event being good decreased by 10%
Magic Makes spells harder to resist (-0.5 MR per scale rounded down, to all units in a province), All spellcasting generates 10%
less fatigue per scale, Gives all friendly mages +1 research points per scale, +50 points of starting research per scale
Drain Makes spells easier to resist (+0.5 MR per scale rounded down, to all units in a province), All spellcasting generates 10%
more fatigue per scale, Gives all mages -1 research points per scale, -50 points of starting research per scale.
Effects of dominion scales.
[[page 36]]
them away from their preferred scale setting.
The scales in a province under your dominion will likely not
initially exactly correspond to the scales you’ve chosen.  This
is because the dominion scales in a province change more
slowly than the level of dominion.  It may take several turns
of strong dominion over a province to tip the scales to the
settings you chose at the outset.  If you have low dominion
over a province, your scales will likely never ramp up to full
value.  The exact mechanics can be found in the Dominion
section.
Pretender hit points  The hit points of pretenders (and
prophets) are affected by the current dominion in their
province. Pretenders and prophets in friendly dominion will
have increased hit points, while in enemy dominion their hit
points will be reduced. The greater the dominion, the
greater the effect. They also get increased strength and
magic resistance.
For each level of friendly dominion in a province a prophet
and/or pretender gains:
* +1 strength,
* +½ magic resistance point
* +10% hit points
For every level of enemy dominion in a province, a prophet
and/or pretender loses:
* –1 strength
* –½ magic resistance point
* –10% hit points. Hit points cannot be reduced below 10% of
the total.
The Awakening
This determines the time needed to pass before the
pretender is actually summoned to this world.  If you start
the game with your pretender, your initial points for
pretender construction are 450 (minus the cost of the
physical form of your god).  To have your pretender appear
one year (10-13 turns) into the game (Dormant) gives you a
150-point bonus.  If you wait three years (28-42 turns) you
get an extra 350 points (Imprisoned).  Note that while one
turn is a month, and thus 12 turns equals one year, the time
to the Awakening is not precise, and you may wait a little
longer than (or not as long as) other nations in the same
game.
Once you have assigned a Physical Form, Magic skills,
Dominion strength and Scales, and Awakening to your
pretender, you can give your pretender a name.  If you leave
the name blank the game will choose an appropriate name
for a pretender of that nation based on the long history of
the world of Dominions.
Disciples will awaken in about half the time of their
pretender.
Pretender death
A pretender loses either one skill level in one path of magic
or one point of dominion strength for each death suffered
(unlike the global “one loss in each path” of some of the
previous Dominions games).  This does not affect bless
effects, which remain what they were at the beginning of the
game.  The chance of losing magic is 50% + 10% per level of
Nature magic that the pretender had when he died.  If the
pretender doesn't lose any magic or if the pretender has no
magic skills, it will always lose one point of dominion
strength instead.
The magic skill most likely to be lost will be Nature, and the
least likely to be lost is Death.  In fact, there is even a small
chance of gaining knowledge in Death magic when dying. 
There is an even smaller chance of gaining skill in Astral or
Blood magic after death as well.  The lessons of the
Underworld are unpredictable.
No pretender can go below a dominion strength of 1, no
matter how many times he/she/it dies.
Death of Immortal Pretenders
Dominion immortal pretenders who die in a friendly
dominion re-appear in their home after the reformation
period, and do not suffer the magic skill or dominion
strength loss.  A dominion immortal pretender who dies
outside a friendly dominion is subject to all the above rules. 
An immortal pretender does not lose any dominion or magic
paths on death no matter where it dies.  A pretender that
gets soul slayed will not be able to use its immortality ability
however.
Call God
If a pretender dies, he or she can be brought back by his
nation’s priests.  Each priest level assigned to the Call God
order in a turn generates 1 point.  Once a nation has
accumulated around 50 points, the pretender returns to his
or her home province.  The total is not exactly 50 in order to
36
[[page 37]]
add some uncertainty to the exact reappearance.  In a
disciple game the points required to call the dead god are
increased by 50%.
Example:  The pretender of Vanarus has died.  Because he
had Nature 3 when he died, he has an 80% chance of losing
one skill level in one magic path (not necessarily Nature) and
if he does not, he will lose one point of dominion strength. 
On the following turn, Vanarus assigns three level 1 priests
and a level 2 priest to Call God.  If no other priests are
assigned to this, it will take about ten turns for the
pretender of Vanarus to return.
The nations Ur and Uruk have a special property which
allows their god to be called back from the dead without
losing any magic levels or dominion strength.
Automatic Bless Effects
All pretenders and disciples are auto-blessed within their
own dominion.  They are not blessed at any other time. 
Sacred units on the battlefield with their pretender are
auto-blessed as well if the battle is in a friendly dominion.
Units
The world of Dominions 6 was populated by all manner of
creatures.  These ranged from weak, lightly armed militia to
giant monsters of unspeakable horror and magnitude.  In
between there were bards, mages, bandits, dragons, and
many others.
In the game, units can be summoned by spells, recruited
from the countryside, or may appear at your gates on their
own.  Each province has its own recruitable units.  Some
units may require a structure such as a temple or laboratory
before they can be recruited.  Some can only be recruited in
a province with a particular magic site.
Each nation has a unique set of units that can only be
accessed in provinces with a friendly fort.  At the start of the
game, this will be the starting fort in a nation’s home
province.  Later, as you build new fortresses, you’ll be able to
recruit those units in those provinces, too, although some
units are recruitable only in your capital, from a magic site
located there.
There is a basic distinction between units and commanders:
units are the troops that make up your squads, while
commanders are the individuals who either lead these
squads or perform other tasks like research or item crafting. 
Some attributes are exclusive to commanders, like
leadership and the ability to change equipment inventory or
carry gems.  The list below summarizes all of these
attributes.
You can get further information about an ability simply by
clicking on it.  This will bring up a window which shows how
this value has been modified.  For example, a unit may have a
base morale value of 12, but due to experience (+1) and
friendly dominion (+1) the modified value is 14.  Clicking on
the attribute will show its modifications.
Some attributes show further attributes
37
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
Ermor was once a great empire that had conquered much of the known world.  The realm crumbled as the great mages of the Empire 
studied dark magic under the Sauromancers of C’tis.  Unaware of the dangers of dark sorcery, priests performed unholy rites in the 
capital city of Eldregate.  But there were voices who demanded that the foul practices stop.  Theurgs and Thaumaturgs foresaw the 
cataclysm and advised generals, governors, and consuls to revolt.  When the Apostate Emperor marched on Ermor itself, the Augurs and 
Bishops of the Empire were forced to act in concert.  In one cataclysmic event, Death was let loose and the empire was shattered.  The 
Cataclysm attracted attention from an earlier God, a dark and hungry God.  The vast power of this Awakening God erased the 
boundaries between the land of the living and the land of the dead.  Ermor is now a cursed land of ashes and darkness where nothing 
grows.  The bones of long-dead inhabitants reassemble to form legions of undead under the leadership of the cursed priests of the old 
Ermorian faith.  Undead legions march forth to conquer a world once theirs.  The Ermorian Dominion reanimates the dead without the 
aid of unholy priests.  It also destroys the land, turning crops and forests into ashes, and people and livestock into bones.  The Pretender 
God of Ermor will also be able to sense where any corpses are in provinces under his Dominion.
[[page 38]]
Basic attributes
Hit Points
Everyone knows what this is.
Size
Size determines how many units can be in a single square on
the battlefield (a maximum of 10 points in a single square).  It
also determines how many supplies a unit needs each turn.
Units consume size minus 2 supplies each month. Small units
(size 1-2) consume ½ supply each month and size 0 units do not
consume any supplies. Animals have their supply usage halved.
For cavalry units both the rider and the mount will consume
supplies.
Strength
This determines how much damage a unit does when it
successfully strikes a target. Strength is also used to break free
from certain effects like entanglement.
Attack
This determines the unit’s chances of successfully striking a
target with melee weapons.
Defense
This determines the unit’s chances of avoiding a strike by melee
weapons.
Protection
This is the unit’s armor rating.  It can be different on different
parts of the body, depending on equipment worn or simply the
nature of the creature’s hide.  These separate values will be
shown when you click on Protection.
Morale
This measures a unit’s likelihood of not running away from
battle.
Magic Resistance
Think of this as Defense, only against magic.  Not all spells have
to penetrate Magic Resistance, though.
Precision
This is how accurate a unit is, either with missiles or with magic.
Encumbrance
A unit will incur Fatigue equal to its Encumbrance on each turn
it attacks.  Moving —by itself— does not incur this.
Map Move
This determines how far a unit can move on the world map,
subject to the movement costs listed under Movement on page
47.
Combat Speed
This determines how far the unit can move in combat.
Fatigue
A unit’s Fatigue causes it to be more susceptible to critical
strikes.  Once a unit reaches 100 fatigue, it becomes
unconscious and is unable to attack or defend.  A unit at 200
fatigue starts taking regular hit point damage instead of fatigue
damage from additional fatigue.
Age
The first number is the unit’s age in years.  The number in
parentheses is the age at which the unit will start suffering
penalties and become susceptible to afflictions due to old age. 
This attribute is displayed when you click on Fatigue.  The age
when you start suffering penalties is referred to as max age.  It
is modified by the following (in order of priority):
* undead creatures have their max age increased by 50% per
point of Death magic
* inanimate creatures have their max age increased by 50% per
point of Earth magic
* demons have their max age increased by 50% per point of
Blood magic
* everyone else has his or her max age increased by 50% per
point of Nature magic
* creatures whose max age could be modified by Nature have it
reduced 5% per point of Fire magic (burn bright, burn fast)
There are three kinds of Leadership, and apply to
Commanders only.
Leadership
This is the number of units a commander can lead.
Undead Leadership
Like leadership, but for undead beings.  Mages can lead 50
undead beings per level of Death magic skill and 10 per level of
Blood magic skill he or she has.
Magical leadership
As above, but for magical beings.  For mages this is determined
by indirect magic bonuses (see Indirect Magic chart – not all
paths confer the same benefits).
Units also may have special abilities.  Some of these are
summarized below.
Special abilities
Units in Dominions 6 can have a wide variety of special
abilities.  In fact, there are about 500 special abilities in the
game.  Each modifies the unit’s attributes or capabilities in
some way.  A mouse-over or right-click on the ability in the
stats screen will give an explanation of what it does.  Some
of these attributes bear further explanation, which appear
38
[[page 39]]
below.
Ambidextrous
This ability reduces the attack penalty for wielding two or more
weapons by an amount equal to the Ambidextrous level. It does
not remove the 1 point of encumbrance penalty per extra
weapon wielded.
Berserker
A unit with this ability goes berserk when wounded if it passes
a morale check vs. 12.  Berserk units fight until dead – they do
not rout.  A unit with +Berserk ability gets that number as a
bonus to its berserk attributes.  A berserk unit that falls
unconscious loses its berserker state (but can go berserk again
if wounded after regaining consciousness).
Ethereal
Very difficult to hit with non-magical weapons.  75% of such
strikes will miss. When storming a fort ethereal units can pass
through the walls and attack defenders on the other side.
Glamour
These units gain Mirror Image in combat, and are undetectable
in friendly provinces.
Recuperation
This unit can heal its battle afflictions over time, unless it has
the Old Age icon.
Regeneration
Regenerative creatures heal some of their lost HP after every
combat round and have a reduced risk of getting permanent
afflictions from getting wounded in battle.  Regeneration does
not affect inanimate beings like golems and longdead.  There
are two more varieties of regeneration that are called
Reconstruction and Reforming Flesh.  Reconstruction only
works on inanimate beings and nothing else.  Reforming Flesh
works on all undead beings, but not on anything else.
Sailing
Can cross (but not remain in) water provinces when moving.
Awe
Units with Awe force enemies to take a morale check against
10 + Awe in order to be able to attack them.  Thus, a unit with
Awe +4 would force attackers to pass a morale check against
14, or be awestruck and unable to attack the awe-inspiring
monster on that combat round.  There is a special kind of Awe
called Sun Awe which does not work underground, or when it is
dark.
Fear
Units in a monster’s Fear area of effect get their morale
temporarily lowered and their entire squad must take a morale
check against the monster’s Fear, or rout.  The basic Fear effect
requires a check against 10.  Unlike Awe, the bonus to Fear
indicates the additional area of effect, not the Fear strength.  So
a Fear +4 monster has normal Fear that radiates to 4 additional
squares.  The Fear strength itself is increased for every full +5
Fear, so a Fear +10 unit would radiate to ten additional
squares, and force a morale check against 12.  The base area of
effect (Fear +0) is 6 squares.
Heat
Units with this ability radiate heat into adjacent squares.  You
will see this as little black smoke.  This creates level 1 or 2 heat
clouds in the vicinity.  The default size of a heat aura is 3
squares and is increased by Heat scales and reduced by Cold
scales.  Some monsters may have a greater heat aura, which has
a larger area of effect.  Also a huge number of units with heat
aura will cause the clouds to spread further, but the effect on a
single nearby enemy unit will still be the same.
Chill
This is exactly the same as Heat, except that it creates frost
clouds.  It looks like bluish-white smoke.  The default size of a
chill aura is 3 squares and is increased by Cold scales and
reduced by Heat scales.
Poison cloud
This creates level 1 or 2 poison clouds in the vicinity.  These
clouds look like green smoke.
Stun
Stun prevents a unit from taking any action for about one
round.
Invisibility
Units that are invisible cannot be seen.  You suffer a -9 penalty
to Attack when attacking a unit you cannot see in melee.  In
order to see invisible units you must have the ability Spirit
Sight.  Units that are blind anyway are not further penalized
when attacking invisible enemies.
Petrification
This is the Medusa's special ability.  Anyone attacking her is
petrified if the attacker fails a magic resistance roll.  After
about 3-6 rounds, the petrification is lost.  If the unit passes a
magic resistance check upon losing its petrification, it returns
to normal.  If it does not, it dies.
39
[[page 40]]
Standard
The standard ability increases the morale of the entire squad it
is in. Only the best standard for every squad will have a morale
increasing effect.
Horror Marking
A horror mark is a condition which can lead to dire results.  A
horror mark will result in a small chance each month that a unit
will be attacked by a horror.  A unit can be horror-marked more
than once which will increase this chance, but there is no way of
knowing how bad the mark is.  Certain spells will cause a
horror-marked unit to be attacked.  In battle Horrors always
attack a horror-marked unit first. Stronger horror marks also
attract stronger horrors.
Trample
Trample is exactly what it sounds like – a large unit runs over a
smaller one.  Smush!  A trampling unit displaces all of the units
in the square it enters to an adjacent square.  These units have
to take a Defense – (fatigue / 10) check against 3d6.  If they fail
this check, they take 7 + Size trample damage.  This is an
armor-piercing attack, so Protection is halved.  Ethereal
tramplers have their trample damage halved. A trampled unit
will always take at least one point of damage, regardless of
Protection.  A unit which successfully passes the defense check
is still displaced, but just takes one point of damage, total.
Swallow
Some monsters are able to swallow the target of a successful
trampling attack.  The swallowed monsters are removed from
the battlefield until the swallowing monster is killed.  Some
monsters are able to digest swallowed targets, which does
damage to the swallowed target each turn, and some monsters
can even incorporate the swallowed target into their own
bodies and get extra hit points from the damage they do to
swallowed creatures. Being swallowed prevents many life
saving abilities and spells (e.g. Regeneration and Phoenix Pyre)
from working and usually means certain death unless the
swallower is killed swiftly.
Unit classes
Some special ability divide units into classes that have
different abilities associated with them, and often
leadership requirements that restrict who can lead them.
Magic being
These units require a mage to lead them.  They rout if left
without magical leadership.
Mindless
Mindless units have 50 morale and will never rout as long they
their is a suitable commander present to lead them.  if left
without a suitable commander they will suffer mindless
dissolution on the battlefield .  Mindless units cannot be in the
same squad as non-mindless units.
Undead
Undead units are subject to banishment.  Undead units require
undead leadership, which is generally conferred by skill in
Death magic (or being an undead commander).  Zombies aren’t
going to take orders from just anybody.  A squad that mixes
undead and non-undead gets a -1 morale penalty, for obvious
reasons.  Undead are also immune to affliction healing effects
and will not suffer any adverse effects by being diseased.  They
rout if left without undead leadership.
Demon
Demons are subject to banishment.  Demons require undead
leadership, just like undeads. Demons are also immune to
disease.  They rout if left without undead leadership.
Lifeless
Lifeless beings are immune to disease, regeneration, life drain
and affliction healing effects.  Lifeless beings are also immune
to many combat spells, but they can heal themselves with life
draining attacks like everyone else.
Spiritform
Beings with spiritform cannot be affected by transformation
types spells like ironskin, skeletal body and polymorph. They
are also immune to both diseases and affliction healing effects.
Animal
Animals can be led by normal commanders, just like humans. 
Animals only consume half as many supplies as a humanoid of
the same size.  Animals without arms like apes are worse at
both sieging and defending forts (half strength for this
purpose), on the other hand most animals compensate by being
stronger than humans.
Additional abilities
There are many other unit attributes, which you can get
information on by right-clicking on or mousing over the
effect in the unit’s stat window.  An ability granted by a
magic item, such as Regeneration or Fire Resistance, will be
listed with the other abilities, and information about it can
be found in the same way.
You can see a (nearly) full list of abilities in the Modding
40
[[page 41]]
Manual included with the game.
XP: Experience points
Units which survive the world of Dominions for a period of
time are likely to get experience.  Units usually gain 1 XP per
month, but can gain more through combat.  Winning a battle
gives 4 XP, retreating from a battle gives 1 XP. This battle
XP will be awarded at most one time per month, even if a
unit should have participated in more battles. Striking
enemies in melee (or tramling) also give 1 XP per strike.
More XP gives a bonus to Prec, Att, Def, Str, Morale,
Encumbrance, HP and Magic Resistance. Commanders also
get a bonus to the number of troops they can lead and
Research Points if applicable. See table "Stat bonuses from
XP" too see what bonuses are gained at each new level. Note
that commander with poor leadership (max 10 units) have
their leadership bonuses divided by 5.
Some items, sites and the Heroism bless grants additional
XP.
Heroic abilities
Non-pretender commanders who join the Hall of Fame get
heroic abilities.  These are denoted by a yellow star in a red
circle, and can grant increased attributes, such as strength,
leadership, magic resistance, and the like. Unique beings
such as the Elemental Royalty cannot enter the Hall of
Fame.
Afflictions
Units may suffer battle affliction when they suffer damage. 
The chance is simply the percentage of its total normal hit
points a unit suffers on that strike.  In other words, an
infantry unit with a healthy strength of 10 hp will have a
20% chance of suffering an affliction upon taking 2 hp
damage.  The location of hits is important!  Loss of an arm or
an eye depends on being hit in the right place.
Afflictions are denoted by a red heart.  A unit may suffer
from multiple afflictions.  Diseased units may gain additional
afflictions each turn.  Afflictions can be healed by the
following methods:
* Units with the Recuperation special ability heal afflictions over
time (unless they have Old Age).
* Units that are Immortal (or Dominion Immortal) may heal
afflictions when they reform after dying.
* Units with an involuntary shapechange mechanic (such as
Jaguar Warriors of Mictlan) can sometimes heal afflictions
when they change back to their normal shape. This is checked
every time they change back to their first shape, but it is not a
reliable method of healing.
* Units with the Healer ability will cure a number of afflictions up
to the value of the ability automatically in the same province
every turn.
* Units with the disease healer ability will automatically cure a
number of diseases equal to the value of the ability in the same
province every turn.
* The global enchantment Gift of Health will automatically cure
afflictions in the dominion of its owner (including allied nations
in disciple games as long as dominion is positive).
* The magic artifact The Chalice will automatically cure up to 5
afflictions in the same province.
* The Miraculous Cure all Elixir magic item will automatically
heal one diseased unit in the same province.
* There are a couple of magic rituals that can be cast to cure a
disease from a specific unit in the same province.
* There are a few magic sites that can heal afflictions like a healer
* Undead, inanimate of spiritform beings usually cannot heal
afflictions unless they have Recuperation or Immortality.
* Afflictions caused by cursed items such as Eye of Aiming and
The Black Heart cannot be healed unless the item is removed
first.
* The corpse sticher ability can heal corporeal undead beings
(ethereal beings are immune).
Afflictions have a difficulty level that is checked against
when subjected to healing.  If the healing check succeeds,
the affliction is cured.
41
XP Att Def Prec Str HP Enc MR Morale Ldr RP
15 +1 +1 +1 - - - - +1 +25 +1
50 +1 +1 +1 - - - - +1 +50 +1
100 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 - - +1 +50 +1
200 +1 +1 +1 - +1 -1 - +1 +50 +1
400 +1 +1 +1 +1 +1 - +1 +1 +50 +1
Stat bonuses from XP
[[page 42]]
Afflictions are different from Curses or Horror Marks.  The
latter two entities cannot be removed.  Horror marks may
be lessened by staying dead.
Recruiting units
Recruiting units is the main method of adding troops to your
armies.  Recruitment is done per province, so as you capture
provinces, you gain the ability to recruit new types of troops.
In some coastal provinces, these troops may be amphibious.
* Each province has its own pool of units.
* Some national units can only be recruited in a nation’s capital
* Building a fort in a province adds a nation’s non-capital troops
to that province’s pool.
* Gold, resources, and Recruitment points are spent to produce
units.
* Some nations can recruit additional units outside their forts,
depending on terrain
Recruitment costs
Units have three costs: gold, resources, and recruitment
points.  In the world of Dominions, a unit’s training is
reflected in its gold cost, while its equipment requires the
resources, and the recruitment point cost is the need to
recruit more advanced unit types in more populated areas,
as those who are fit for the advanced roles will be
uncommon.  Expect highly skilled units to cost a lot of gold,
heavily equipped units to cost a lot of resources, and highly
skilled, heavily equipped units to cost a fortune.
Sacred units also have a Holy point cost, which is usually 1
per unit (including sacred commanders), but some large
sacred units can cost more sacred points.
Recruitment restrictions
There are some restrictions not only on how many units of a
type can be recruited in one turn, but how they can be
queued as well.
42
[[page 43]]
* Commanders:  You can only recruit as many commanders in a
province in a turn as you have available commander
recruitment points.  Commanders can cost more than one
point.
* Gold:  Units may only be recruited up to the limit of that
nation’s current treasury.  Units cannot be queued up for the
next turn if you don't have gold for them.
* Resources:  Units may only be recruited in a province in a given
turn based on that province’s current resources, but they may
be queued for following turns.  This makes it possible for
players to recruit units in provinces that don’t produce enough
resources    to fulfill that unit’s resource requirement in a single
turn.  Units that cannot be built in the current turn, but are in
the queue, are dimmed in the recruitment area.
* Recruitment:  Units can be queued based on recruitment
points just as they may be queued based on resources.
* Holy:  Sacred units can only be recruited up to the home
province’s Holy limit, which is the same as the current
maximum dominion.  Units can be added to the queue beyond
the Holy limit.
* Limited:  Some units may have a recruitment limit that only
allows a certain number to be recruited per turn (e.g. maximum
of 2 Sobek Sacred Guard per turn, regardless of available gold
or resources).
Units are recruited at the beginning of the turn resolution,
so units in a province being attacked in the same turn they
are recruited will fight to defend the province.  If they are
recruited in a fortress then they will stay in the fortress and
become besieged.
Recruited units go into
the unassigned unit
pool of units at the top
of the Army Setup
screen.  Below them
you will see all your
commanders in that
province. Holding
down [SHIFT] while
selecting a unit for
recruiting will choose
ten of that unit.  Up to
250 units may be
queued in a province.
Army Setup
The Army Setup screen is where you deploy your units for
battle.  When said battle occurs, units will be placed on the
map in accordance with their squad’s arrangement in the
Position squad box.  They will attempt to follow the battle
orders given (see Set Battle Orders below).  The screens
works like this:
Garrison units
At the top of the screen, below the province name, is a single
row where all unassigned, or garrison units, are shown. 
Newly recruited units get placed here, and stay there until
they are assigned to a commander (or the province is
invaded and they are killed in battle).  If the province
contains a fortress, these units are considered inside the
walls and don’t join any patrolling units in combat.  If the
province has no fortress, they do participate in combat, and
form one large squad at the center of the battlefield.
Squads
Squads are the basic organizational unit of combat.  They
can contain anywhere from 1 unit to the limit of their
commander’s leadership value.  A commander cannot lead
more units than this value, no matter how many or few
squads they are split into.  A commander can lead a
maximum of five squads, although depending on the
commander's leadership, additional squads may suffer a
morale penalty.  Thus, the maximum number of squads in an
army is five times the number of commanders.  Some units
43
[[page 44]]
require their commanders to have special abilities in order
to lead them, like undead leadership for undead and demons
or magical leadership for magical beings.  Units that are both
undead and magic beings require undead leadership.
All commanders in a province will appear with their icons on
the far left side of the Army Setup screen, with their
placement window next to them followed by their name and
squad information.  Their squads will be arranged below
them, with a battle placement box, a unit count, and the Set
Battle Orders menu.
To place a unit into a squad, click on the unit, and then either
click on the squad box of a currently existing squad (if you
want to add that unit to the squad), or click on the icon of the
commander himself (if you want to create a new squad. 
When a new squad is created, a new box will open below the
commander’s box and the unit will appear there.  If a
commander has no units assigned yet, this is how you
start—just add the first unit to a new squad by clicking on
the unit, then on the commander.  Units can be added to a
commander up to the limit of his Leadership value.
The limits on number of units and number of squads is
displayed at the far right of the Army Setup screen.
Selection shortcuts can help you sort through the different
units in the Army Setup screen.
Double-click to select all units of the same type Shift-click to
select multiple units Hover mouse over a squad and hit ‘w’ to
select all units with afflictions Hover mouse over a squad
and hit ‘e’ to select all units with 2+ experience stars Hit
‘Enter’ after you’ve already clicked on a unit(s) to deselect
the unit(s) Press ? to see the complete list of keyboard
shortcuts.
Thus, you can more easily go through and find all the limping
units, and put them elsewhere so that holes do not open up
in your squads as they advance because the limping units are
falling behind.  You can likewise make elite squads of
experienced troops that will have higher morale than other
squads of their type.
Battle position
There are green boxes to the right of each commander’s icon
on the left side of the Army Setup screen are Position
Commander and Position Squad boxes, which for short this
manual will call the Battle Position box when it is talking
about both.  Similar boxes appear to the right of each squad
(on the right edge of the Army Setup screen).  These boxes
define where a unit will appear on the battlefield initially. 
The box shows all of the units currently occupying the
province.  Commanders are shown as circles, and squads as
boxes.  The color of the circles and boxes are dependent on
their current orders.  The currently selected unit (either
squad or commander) is highlighted in white.  You can select
a single commander or squad by left-clicking, or select a
group by drawing a selection rectangle.  By right-clicking
you can move the squad, commander or groups around.  The
left side is the back of your formation, and the right side is
the front.  Note that the size of a squad or commander is
reflected in the size of its circle or box.  The predominant
unit icon is displayed to help you keep track of which squad
contains what type of units.
Color Meaning
White Circle Currently selected commander
Grey Circle Commander
Purple Circle Commander with Cast order
Yellow Circle Commander with Retreat order
White Box Currently selected squad
Grey Box Squad with default orders
Turquoise Box Squad with Attack Rear order
Dark Blue Box Squad with Guard Commander order
Light Blue Squad with Hold and Attack order
Yellow Squad with Retreat order
Red Box Squad with undisciplined units
When a battle begins, a squad will appear on the battlefield
according to its location in the Position Squad box.
Battle Orders
Because players don’t control units directly in combat,
squads have to be issued orders which they then attempt to
follow once combat is joined.  Each squad can be issued a
different order, even if it is under the leadership of the same
commander.  Squads can be assigned general orders, or
general and target orders.  The ones indicated by an asterisk
(*) require target orders – the remainder do not.
General orders
None
This simply turns the control of this squad over to the
computer.  It will decide what is best.
Attack*
This will engage an enemy in melee
44
[[page 45]]
Fire*
Missile units will fire at a target until they are out of missiles.
Guard commander
The unit centers on the commander and protects him or her (or
it) from harm.  If there is an assassination attempt on the
commander, these units have a chance of fighting in the
assassination battle with their commander.  Ranged units with
guard commander will only fire if an enemy starts getting too
close.
Hold and attack*
The squad will hold in place for two turns.  If it is armed with
missile weapons, it will fire at targets in range.  After two
rounds, it will advance to melee combat.
Hold and fire*
The squad will hold in place for two turns, then fire or advance
to get into firing range
Fire and keep distance*
The squad will fire missile weapons until their target gets close,
and then attempt to withdraw to a safe range and keep firing.
Retreat
The squad retreats off the battlefield.  This is treated exactly
like a rout and the units may scatter to adjacent provinces.
If you have chosen Attack/Hold and Attack or Fire/Fire and
keep distance, you must specify who you that squad is
attacking, or at whom that squad is firing.
Target orders
None
Targets one random enemy and his squad
Archers
Targets a random enemy archer and its squad
Cavalry
Targets a random enemy cavalry unit or fast unit and its squad
Fliers
Targets a random enemy unit which can fly, and its squad
Large monsters
Targets one random enemy of size 7 or more and its squad.  If
no enemy of this size exists, a size 6 unit will be treated as a
large monster.
Closest
The squad will target the closest enemy squad
Rearmost
The squad will target a random enemy at the rear of the enemy
battle formation.
No matter what orders a squad is given, it may not get there
if it gets stuck in the zone of control of an enemy unit that
gets in the way.
Question:  Can’t my soldiers be ordered to just sit back and
defend indefinitely?
Answer:  No.  Hold and Attack will have your troops stay in
place for 2 rounds, but after that, they attack.
Commander orders
Commanders can be given orders just like squads.  In the
commander battle orders menu, the top four orders are
specific, while the bottom four are general orders.  Specific
orders last for one turn, while general orders guide the
commander’s actions for the rest of the combat.
Up to five specific orders can be scripted for a single
commander.  If a commander receives no orders, the AI will
assign them to him.
Scripts of orders can be copied from one commander to
another.  Hold the mouse over the script you wish to copy
and hold down the [Ctrl] key, and then hit a number key. 
The script will be stored under this number.  Then, place the
mouse over the <set battle orders> text of a commander to
whom you wish to copy the script, and hit the same number
key (without holding down [Ctrl]).  The script will be copied
to the new commander.  You can store multiple scripts by
45
[[page 46]]
using the 0-9 keys.
Specific orders
Hold one turn
Hold position for one turn
Hold or Fire missile weapon
Same as hold position, except that commander will fire a missile
weapon.
Hold or Cast a spell
Same as hold position, except that commander will cast a spell
(chosen by the AI) if possible.  Only available for spellcasters.
Cast a specific spell
Cast a spell specified by the player if the commander has
sufficient gems and there is a valid target in range.  If one of
those two conditions is not met, the AI will choose a spell to
cast.
Attack one turn
Commander will move toward a random enemy for one turn
and engage it in melee if possible
Fly Attack one turn
Commander will fly toward a random enemy and try to engage
it in melee if possible.  The commander must be able to fly to
use this order.
General orders
Stay behind troops
The commander will cast spells, fire missile weapons, and
attempt to place himself or herself in the rearmost part of the
army.
Attack
The commander will move towards enemies and attempt to
engage them in melee
Cast spells
The commander will cast spells chosen by the AI
Advance and cast spells
The commander will advance to be close to the front and cast
spells.  If possible, a few spells will be cast while advancing as
well.
Retreat
The commander will attempt to rout off the map.
Checking the box "conservative gem use" will ensure that
the mage uses his gems as sparingly as possible and for
scripted spells only.  This can be useful if you want to save
gems for later battles.
After giving a commander an order, the same order can be
repeated by clicking [x].
Unit Inventories
Commanders’ inventories are important places for
equipment.  Clicking on an empty inventory slot takes you
directly to your nation’s magic item inventory (if you are in a
province with a lab), and selecting an item in this screen will
equip that slot with it.  Magic items can grant the wearer all
sorts of benefits, which are given in the Magic Item section
of the appendix.  Not all units will have all inventory slots,
though.  The example shown below is for a typical human
commander.  A non-human commander may not have a head
slot, for instance.  Or no feet.  Mounted commanders have a
foot slot, but it is disabled as long as they are mounted,
because they use a horse for transport instead of their own
feet.  But if they get dismounted they will be able to use their
magic boots should they have any.  Mounts of commanders
have a barding slot.
A unit can be upgraded with better armor and weapons
simply by giving him or her a superior item.  However, the
unit’s standard items cannot be removed, and when the new
item is withdrawn, the standard item re-appears.
Magic gem inventory
Commanders may also carry magic gems, which mages can
46
The commander item slots
[[page 47]]
use for a variety of purposes.  Gems can be transferred
between commanders in the same province by clicking on
the Magic Resource Treasury [F7] in the main screen and
then clicking on “Transfer gems to commanders” button, or
simply clicking on a commander’s personal magic items
inventory slot, which goes directly to the Transfer Magic
Resources screen, shown below.
Up to two commanders in the province will be shown.  If
there is a laboratory in the province, the right-hand column
will show the nation’s magic gem inventory.  Otherwise, this
right-most column will be greyed out.
Gems can be moved between columns by right- or
left-clicking on the number in a particular column:
left-clicking will increase it, while right-clicking will decrease
it.
Any commander can carry gems, even if he or she cannot use
them.  Because the gem-carrying limit is 40, sometimes it
can be helpful to have a commander accompany a mage as a
“gem squire.”
Movement
Dominions 6 is a game of provinces.  Movement still consists
of going from one province to another, and depends on
several things:  the movement speed of the unit(s), the
terrain in the province, and whether or not the province is
friendly or enemy.  In general, you can only move from one
province to another if they are connected.  To see a
province's connections, hit the [Ctrl-8] key.  These
connections will be color-coded.
It is possible to move through multiple provinces of enemy
territory if your movement allowance is high enough.
The basic concepts regarding movement are as follows:
* Movement takes place as a series of “half-steps”: you move out
of one province and into another.
* When you do this, you pay movement costs for each half-step
according to the Movement Cost Table
* Stopping in an enemy province triggers combat, unless all
entering units are Stealthy (like scouts).
* Armies with multiple units move at the speed of the slowest
unit.
* Only commanders may move.  Armies may not move if they are
not led by a commander.
* Movement into or out of difficult terrain (forest, mountains,
swamp) is affected by units' survival abilities.
General rules governing movement
Movement in Dominions 6 occurs from province to
province, and is determined by a unit's map movement
factor.  If you right-click on any unit, you will see this factor
next to the word "Map Move" in the unit attributes.  A unit
with "Map Move 12" has 12 movement points for moving on
the strategic map.  Even if a unit has a movement greater
than 1, however, it is subject to certain restrictions.
Movement is calculated in “half-steps” which must be made
to calculate the cost to leave, and then enter, each province. 
Each terrain has an associated movement cost:
Half step move cost for ground units
Plains 3
Forest 5
Waste 5
Highlands 6
Swamp 7
Sea 5
Cave 4
Cave Forest 6
Crystal Cave 6
Drip Cave 7
These are modified as follows:
* Enemy province (moving unit does not have stealth): +4
* Enemy province (moving unit has stealth): +3
* Snow:    +1
* Roads: -2 (min. 2)
Note that roads are not present on the random maps, but
they can be added to custom maps by map creators.
Flying units have different movement costs entirely:
Half step move cost for fliers
Most terrain 3
Cave 5
Enemy province +1
If a unit has a survival ability, such as forest, swamp, waste,
or mountains it moves through that terrain with a -2 cost.
Forest survival also helps when traversing fungus caves,
mountain survival helps when traversing crystal caves and
swamp survival helps when traversing drip caves.
47
[[page 48]]
Movement points for troops are based on the following
general parameters:
Heavy infantry 8
Light infantry 14
Light cavalry 20
Unicorn 26
Slow flier 14
Flier 20
Fast flier 26
All commanders +2
Each unit has a specific map movement allowance but these
are the general parameters.
There are two special terrain types which are properties of
the borders between provinces rather than the provinces
themselves:  rivers and mountain passes.
Rivers may not be crossed unless the Cold scales in the
provinces on both sides of that river border are +1 or
greater (the river is frozen).  Flying, floating, and swimming
units may cross rivers without penalty regardless of scales,
as may units with the ability to enter water.
Mountain passes may be crossed if the Heat scales in the
provinces on both sides of that mountain border are +1 or
greater (the passes are open).  Flying and floating units may
cross mountain passes without penalty regardless of scales,
as may units with the Mountain Survival ability.
Additional details about movement are listed below.
* Unless a unit is amphibious or aquatic it cannot enter an
underwater province.  [Poor amphibians  are included, but
differ from amphibians in combat.]  Amphibians (poor or
otherwise) may cross rivers without penalty.
* Aquatic units cannot enter land.
* A unit with the sailing ability  may cross water provinces, but
may not remain in such a province at the end of the turn.  This
ability does not in itself allow units to cross rivers.
Commanders are the only units which can be given orders to
move.
48
Movement example
[[page 49]]
All units (both the commander and his or her troops) must
have the abilities listed above in order to take advantage of
them.  Just because a commander can fly doesn't mean his
troops can.  [Exception: some commanders can give their
troops water-breathing abilities, and commanders with
sailing can transport non-sailing units.]
Stopping in an enemy province triggers combat.  [Exception:
Stealthy units]
Armies move at the speed on the slowest unit in the army. 
Thus, forming armies composed of units with widely varying
speeds will slow the whole group down.  If you want to
quickly remove slow units from a squad you can mouse-over
the squad and hit the 'm' key to select the slowest units in
that squad.
Example of movement:
Aethelwald the Knight Commander of Avalon is leading his
troop of knights (of Avalon) on a raid from the Canese Plain. 
He wants to strike into the Atlantian province of Ard.  He
has a map move of 22.  Moving from Canese Plain to Trisia
costs 3 to leave the plains province which is reduced to the
minimum of 2 due to the road, and then entering Trisia costs
3 reduced to 2 (plains/road) as well.  So far he has expended
4 movement points.  Moving from Trisia to Sottera,
however, costs 3 for the half-step to exit Trisia (total so far is
7 movement points expended), but the half-step to enter
Sottera costs 3 for the plains, plus 4 for the fact that Sottera
is an enemy province.  That is 7 movement points to enter
Sottera, making the overall total 14.  To get to Ard,
Aethelwald would have to spend 3 points to leave, plus 4 for
the enemy province, and then 3 to enter Ard, plus 4 for the
fact that Ard is an enemy province as well.  That would cost
28 points, and Aethelwald only has 22 (and the Knights of
Man under his command only have a move of 20).  He stops
in Sottera and will fight the forces of Agartha.
Stealthy  Units with the Stealth ability can move unseen
from province to province.  All movement restrictions apply
normally.
Stealthy units ordered to sneak (the default order) move as
normal but do not join in combat if they enter an enemy
province that turn.  Units already hiding in an enemy
province can be given orders to attack that province in that
turn.  Certain special stealthy units have the ability to
perform other tasks while in an enemy province, such as
Instill Uprising or Assassinate Commander.
Units moving with Stealthy commanders must also be
stealthy or the commander loses his ability to sneak while
with them, and moves normally.
Stealthy units can be ordered to move normally by issuing
the movement order while holding down the [Ctrl] key.
Stealthy priests may preach the faith of their pretenders.  In
effect, they are gathering adherents and setting up
subversive cults in enemy lands.  The newly converted
protect and hide their cult leaders.  Therefore, a preaching
stealthy unit gets a bonus to its stealth dependent on the
population of the province.  It is easier for a priest to hide in
a densely populated province.  This stealth bonus is only
available while performing the Preach the Teachings of God
order.
Glamour  Units with the Glamour ability cannot be seen at
all when in a friendly province.
Glamour also gives units the Mirror Image ability in combat.
Darkvision  Units with the Darkvision ability are less
affected by darkness, depending on the level of their
Darkvision attribute.  Penalties for darkness affect a unit's
Attack, Defense, and Precision.  For normal units these are
all reduced as follows:  night -3, Utterdark -6, blind -9. 
Darkvision does not help you if you are blind.
Initiation of combat.
Combat in Dominions 6 is resolved between any mutually
discovered enemy forces in a province where neither side
has the benefit of a fortress.  This means that you can have a
scout or spy in a province with the enemy, but if he remains
undiscovered, combat is not initiated.  If one side is in a
fortress, it cannot be assailed until the fortress is besieged
and broken [see Sieges, page 71], or the defending force
chooses to sortie [Break Siege].
More than two enemies in combat.  If forces from different
sides occupy the same province at the end of a turn (and
neither one is in a fortress), they fight.  If three or more sides
have forces in a province at the end of a turn, the game will
determine in which order they entered, and will fight the
battles sequentially, with the survivors of each battle being
the defenders in the next battle.  There will never be more
than two sides (attacker and defender) in a single battle.
Example:  Jotunheim, Marignon, and Pythium all enter
49
[[page 50]]
Robber Home in the same turn.  The game determines that
Marignon got there first, followed by Pythium and
Jotunheim.  The first battle will therefore be Pythium
attacking Marignon.  Whichever side wins will then defend
against the attack of Jotunheim, but only with those units
that survived the first battle.
Armies which are allied can occupy the same province.  The
above applies to allied armies as well.  However, if allied
armies are attacked, and thus the defenders in a battle, the
attacker will fight each battle sequentially, and if he wins the
first then the survivors will fight against the second
defender, and so on.  The order of the defenders is random.
Orders
Units can be given a variety of orders.  A movement order is
given simply by left-clicking on the commander’s icon, and
then left-clicking on the destination province, whereupon a
movement arrow will extend between the two provinces. 
This arrow is point-to-point and does not mean the moving
unit will enter each province the arrow crosses.  If the move
is illegal (move too far, intervening rough terrain blocks, etc.)
then the order will not be issued, and no arrow will be
displayed.  If the move order is legal but becomes illegal
before hosting the turn (e.g. removing Flying Boots from a
commander crossing difficult terrain), the move arrow
remains, but the commander will not move, because the
changed move order is validated during turn hosting.
Move
Move to another province.  If it is an enemy province,
combat will occur.  This is the default move for when
left-clicking on another province while an active non-
stealthy commander is selected.  Note that a commander
who is given an order to move to a province containing a fort
will enter the fort.  Contrast this with Move and Patrol (page
51).
Sneak
Sneaking is movement into enemy provinces without being
detected.  Only Stealthy units can attempt such moves. 
Their chance of success (and of staying hidden in an enemy
province once they are there) depends on their Stealth
rating, the number of units trying to hide, and the number of
units looking for them.  Provincial defense automatically
searches for hidden units in its province each turn as long as
the defense level is 15 or greater.  A commander, however,
must be set to the Patrol order.  Fast units, like cavalry, or
units which fly, are better at revealing hidden units than
slow units or non-flying units are.  Units with a Patrol bonus
are also better, as you might expect.  Units may also Sneak
and attack, which allows stealthy units hiding in an enemy
province to attack an adjacent enemy province.
Combat will not occur unless the unit is discovered by
patrollers or other means.  This is the default move for
stealthy units.  To give a stealthy commander the order to
move normally (and thus attack the province it enters), hold
down [Ctrl] while left-clicking on the destination province.
A stealthy commander will not sneak unless all units under
his or her command are stealthy as well.  Removing
non-stealthy units from the commander will not
automatically change his move back to sneak.
Patrol
Patrolling a province both reduces unrest and has a chance
to discover hidden units.  Some units are better at patrolling
than others (fast units, flying units, or units with patrol
bonus).  For each point of unrest eliminated in a province by
patrollers, the population is reduced by 10.  This represents
the permanent elimination of the troublemakers.  The larger
the patrolling force, the more effective it is.  A provincial
defense level of 15 can act as a patrolling force for purposes
of detecting stealthy units, but it is not as effective as an
actual army.  If there is no unrest in a province, the
population will not get hurt by patrollers.
If an enemy is discovered by a patrol, the entire defending
force of the province will engage the enemy to bring it down.
If there is a castle in the province, those inside the castle
without a patrol order will not participate in any combat.
The success of the Patrol order depends on the Stealth
ability of the units that are hiding, their number, the
provincial defense (if any), and the “Patrol Strength” of the
patrolling units.  Patrol Strength is affected by unrest.
Stealth strength:  Stealth value of leader -1 per stealthy unit
in his army (or -0.5 if unit has >=+50 in stealth)
Patrol Strength:  Sum of Patrol strength of all patrolling
units - unrest/2 (capped at unrest 100) + (province defence -
14 if province defence is 15 or greater)
The stealthy units are found if the Patrol Strength + 2d25
(open-ended) > Stealth strength + 2d25 (open-ended).
50
[[page 51]]
The individual Patrol Strength of a given unit = (Precision +
(Map Move, or 30 if flying)) / 20. Units with a Patrol bonus
add the Patrol bonus to their individual Patrol Strength
value. Commanders have their value doubled and
undisciplined and mindless units only counts as half.
A unit's patrol Strength can be inspected by clicking on the
Precision stat when inspecting a unit. An army's Patrol
Strength is shown as a spying-glass symbol with a value after
it, this is shown on the Map screen when selecting one or
more commanders.
Defend
This is exactly the same as the Patrol order except that
there is no patrolling going on.  Units will simply enter
combat against any non-Stealthy units entering the
province.  Unrest is not reduced, but the province is still
defended.  This is the default order.
Units ordered to defend in a province with a fort will not
fight an enemy force entering the province containing the
fort.  Instead, they will become besieged.  (See Combat
section.)
The difference between “Patrol” and “Defend” in a province
with a fort is that patrollers will engage in combat outside
the fort, while defenders will concede the province and
become besieged.
Stealthy units given the Defend order will fight enemies
attacking the province, rather than hiding.
Movement is carried out in two steps.
* First, all units moving to a friendly province do so.
* Afterward, movement takes place in which units are moving to
an enemy province.
Thus, if you are moving an army to one of your provinces,
and an enemy is moving an army to that same province, your
army will get there first, and thus be able to join with any
forces that are already there to try and repel the invasion. 
Of course, the enemy might be able to prevent your army
from moving at all, through various other actions.
However, if you are each attacking the province of a third
nation, one of you will get there first.  This is determined
randomly.
Likewise, if you give an army the order to move into an
adjacent enemy province, and on the same turn an army in
that province gets the order to move into yours, then one of
three things can happen:
* There is a battle in the enemy province between the two
armies;
* There is a battle in your province between the two armies;
* The armies miss one another and exchange places.
Which event occurs depends on the size of the armies in
question and the terrain involved.
Important:  If you order a force into a friendly province
containing a fortress, it will automatically "enter" the
fortress and behave as though it has the order "Defend
Castle."  Thus, if you have one army defending a province
with a castle, but it is assigned the Patrol order, and you
move another army into that province to reinforce it, and
then an enemy army attacks, the first army will fight, but not
the second.  If the first army loses, the enemy will besiege
the second army in the castle.
If you want to have the second army join the first, or if you
only have one army moving to a province and you don’t want
to have it just go into the fortress, but want to battle in the
province itself, you must use Move and Patrol.
Move and Patrol
This order becomes available to a unit once it has been given
an order to move into a friendly province with a fortress in
it.  After giving the initial move order, you can click on the
commander’s orders again, and "Move and Patrol" will now
appear as a choice.  You can also hold down the 'shift' and
'ctrl' keys when selecting destination to give the Move and
Patrol order.  Selecting this will instruct the commander to
move to the province and then patrol outside a fortress.
Enemy units entering that province will be engaged in
combat.  The commander and his squads will not have time
to patrol the province for stealthy units.  Next turn the
commander will have his Move the Patrol order replaced by
a regular Patrol order.
Blood Hunt
This is how blood slaves are collected for the sacrifices
required for blood magic.  In order to successfully blood
hunt in a province, a blood hunter must pass three
successive checks.
51
[[page 52]]
* First, a level check: % chance of success = 10 + (blood level x
30)
* Second, a population check: % chance of success = province’s
population / 75
* Third, an unrest check: % chance of failure = province unrest / 4
If all of these are successful, the number of slaves the blood
hunter will find is:  d6 + blood level and the unrest in the
province will increase by d(slaves x 3 + 4).  That’s a random
number between 1 and three times the number of blood
slaves found, plus 4.
If any of those checks fails, the result is no slaves found, and
a d6 – 1 increase in unrest.
Magic site frequency other than 50% will also affect the
number of blood slaves found. Every 5% adds (or subtracts)
on average 0.5 blood slaves.
Beware: Some people might refuse to give up their
daughters in order for them to be sacrificed. In that case a
fight might occur between the upset commoners and the
blood hunter and any of his bodyguards that happen to be
nearby. A strong dominion and belief in the god will
convince the commoners that it is an honor to be sacrificed,
with a dominion strength of 10, there will be almost no one
refusing to be sacrificed.
Break Siege
This orders units besieged in a fortress to fight a battle
against the enemy units in that province.  Units which
retreat flee back into the castle, or into a neighboring
friendly province.  If both options are possible, there is a
50% chance of going into the castle and 50% chance to go
somewhere else.
Maintain Siege
This is the default order for any units besieging a fortress.  It
does not have to be given unless you change such a
commander’s order, and then need to change it back.  Only
units with this order contribute to siege strength.  Other
orders, such as Preach, can be performed by commanders in
a siege, but they will not add their siege strength to the siege
unless they perform the Maintain Siege order.
Storm Castle
This order is only available if you have successfully reduced
a castle’s defenses to zero.  On the next turn, you will be
given the opportunity to storm the castle.  This initiates a
battle in which the defenders begin behind their own castle
walls.  Because castle storming occurs after movement, a
besieging force may be forced to fight a battle against an
enemy relieving force arriving from outside the besieged
province, and if the relieving force wins, the castle is not
stormed.  If the relieving force is defeated, the besieging
force may still be left with a significantly reduced strength
when storming the castle.
Assassinate
A random enemy commander in that province is targeted for
assassination.  The assassin will fight a battle with the
commander, plus any possible guards or townsfolk that
happen to be nearby when the assassination occurs. 
Bodyguards explicitly assigned to the victim have a 50%
chance each of being present at the time of the assassination
attempt.  This chance is increased by the Bodyguard ability
and decreased by the Assassin's patience value.
The target of an assassination is considered to be
unprepared for the attack and will not follow any scripted
orders he may have.  Assassinations occur at random
locations based on what buildings are present in the
province and who the victim is. E.g. a priest might be
assassinated in the temple when he is praying alone and a
normal commander might be assassinated at the local
tavern.  Depending on the location there might also be
townspeople or city guards present.  Townspeople always
start surprised and guards have a chance to start surprised
that is increased by the assassin's patience value.
Scale Walls
Assassins can usually operate in all provinces they are
sneaking in, even provinces with forts.  But if the fort is
under siege, it will not be possible to assassinate into or out
of the castle.
There is a special ability called Scale Walls that will negate
this protection and allow the assassin to operate as if there
were no walls.
Flying and teleporting units are likewise able to ignore walls.
The same problem with fortifications applies to most similar
abilities, e.g. Seduction, Lure or Infiltration.
Mounts
The assassin's target is likely to not be mounted during the
assassination in most locations, e.g. inside a tavern.  In these
52
[[page 53]]
cases the victim's mount will be killed automatically if the
assassination was successful.  The assassin is assumed to
sneak into the stable and kill the horse as well.
Seduction
Some units can seduce and make enemy commanders of the
opposite gender switch sides.  Nagini and dryads have this
power.  The victim must succeed with a moral check or
become seduced and switch sides.  The seducer must be
adjacent to a friendly province into which the target is
taken.  However a flying seducer will fly with the seduced
one to her master’s capital and need not be adjacent to a
friendly province.  Magic items that grant beauty will make
the seduction harder to resist.  A failed seduction may result
in an assassination battle if the morale check fails badly and
the target decides to attack.
Seduction, like assassination, cannot be attempted when
besieged or besieging a fort, unless the seducer has the
'scale walls', 'fly' or 'teleport' abilities.
Dream Seduction
This works similar to seduction, but there is a difficult magic
resistance roll to resist as well and the morale check
difficulty is usually higher.  Succubi have this power.  Dream
seducers may benefit from magic items that boost beauty
(vs morale) and penetration (vs magic resistance).
Dream Seduction, like assassination, cannot be attempted
when besieged or besieging a fort, unless the seducer has
the 'scale walls', 'fly' or 'teleport' abilities.
Corruption
Some units can corrupt enemy commanders and make them
switch sides.  This works similar to seduction, but beauty
enhancing items have no effect.
Corruption, like assassination, cannot be attempted when
besieged or besieging a fort, unless the corruptor has the
'scale walls', 'fly' or 'teleport' abilities.
Lure of the sirens
This works in a similar way to seduction.  First there is a
difficult magic resistance check, followed by a morale check
against the lure ability (10).  The lure can only be used in
coastal provinces.  Failure doesn’t cause an assassination
battle, which makes the siren’s attempt rather safe.  If
successful, the target drowns himself, or enters the sea and
attacks the siren in an assassination attempt if he is able to
breathe underwater (and returns to land if he survives). 
Magic items that boost penetration will help vs magic
resistance, but items that boost beauty have no effect.
Preach
This allows priests to increase dominion in a province.  The
formula is involved, and explained fully in the dominion
chapter.  In short, the chance of success depends on the level
of the preacher.
Pillage
Pillaging a province increases unrest and kills population in a
province, decreases that province’s supplies, and gains gold
and food for the pillaging army.  The larger the pillaging
force, the greater the chance of success.  Fast units and large
units are better than others at pillaging, while barbarians
and units with the Fear ability are exceptionally good.  The
supplies gained last only one month.
Raid
A raid is a move that can only be performed by a commander
with the Pillager ability if his army has a map move of 20 or
more.  The force under his command will do a movement
followed by a pillage.  It is essentially the same as the Move
and Pillage orders combined, except that the pillage is
performed at reduced strength.  Only units with the pillager
ability will contribute to the raid's pillaging and their pillage
strength will be divided by 2.
A raid will often result in a fight. In this case the fight must
be won in order for any pillaging to take effect.
Reanimate
This is an order available to many undead priests, some
nations (Ermor, Lemuria), and some units (Carrion Lords and
their servants).
Most reanimator priests can choose what kind of undead
they reanimate. This may vary depending on the nation. The
table lists the reanimation rate for Ermor - Ashen Empire.
Ghouls are living humans transformed into undead
monsters by vile rites. Reanimating ghouls reduces the
population of the province.  Soulless are the reanimated
corpses of the newly dead and reanimation of soulless can
only be performed when there are unburied corpses in the
province.  Reanimating soulless reduces the number of
53
[[page 54]]
available unburied corpses in the province.  The Longdead
are reanimated skeletal warriors. There is no limit to the
number of longdead that can be reanimated in a province.
Manikin Reanimation
Asphodel gets manikins and different carrion beasts instead
of normal undead.  If there are still human inhabitants or at
least dead human corpses in the province, there is a chance
for manikins and mandragoras to appear.  If not there will be
different kinds of carrion beasts reanimated instead.  The
carrion beasts are based on animals and these types can
always be reanimated.
Reanimate Manikins will be much less effective if done in an
enemy dominion. More powerful priests will be able to
reanimate more creatures per month, but the quality is the
same.
Contact Allies
Some commanders are able to gather more troops by
spending the month gathering them.  Draconians are an
example.
Perform Blood Sacrifice
A blood sacrifice may only be performed in a province with a
temple, by a nation which has the ability to perform such
sacrifices because it has been part of their history.  These
nations are:
Early age
Mictlan, Xibalba, Marverni, Sauromatia, Abysia, Pangaea,
Vanheim, Hinnom, Berytos
Middle age
Abysia, Vanheim, Pyrène, Vanarus, Nidavangr
Late age
Marignon, Mictlan, Xibalba, Abysia, Midgård, Gath
Capture Slaves
This order is available to Mictlan and Nazca.  A 1d6 + 5
number of slaves are rounded up and forced to join the
army.  They are weak and cowardly soldiers but are free to
recruit.
Become Prophet
This order designates the unit as the one and only prophet
of the nation’s pretender god.  The unit’s priest level is
increased by 1 or to 3, whichever is higher, and the prophet
will start spreading dominion like a temple.  There are other
effects as well, such as increased hit points in friendly
dominion (and decreased hit points in enemy dominion).  If a
prophet is killed, the nation must wait half a year (6 turns)
before designating a new prophet.
Instill Uprising
This order is only available to units with the spy ability, such
as spies and bards.  It will increase the level of unrest in the
enemy province they occupy.
Infiltrate
Infiltrate the enemy capital in order to access the records
and find out as much as possible about the nation.  This can
only be performed in the capital of an enemy nation and if
successful it will reveal the mundane score graphs.  If the spy
is a spell caster the magic related graphs will also be
revealed.  If the spy is a priest the dominion graph will also
be revealed.  This order is only available to units with the spy
ability, such as spies and bards.  The infiltration attempt has
about 50% chance to fail and then the enemy will get to
know that someone has attempted to infiltrate.
Hide
Stealthy units who are not moving will get the default order
of Hide.  A unit hiding in a province (including a friendly
province) will not participate in any combat in that province,
unless discovered, in which case a separate battle will be
fought.
54
Priest level Ghouls Soulless Longdead Longdead horsemen Lictors
1 6 8 3 0 0
2 7 16 5 1 0
3 8 24 7 2 1
4 9 32 9 3 2
5 10 40 11 4 3
Reanimation table
[[page 55]]
Attack Current Province
This order is available to Stealthy units which are hiding in
an enemy province.  The unit will join with friendly units
attacking the province, if there are any.  It is treated as a
movement order of distance zero.
Construct Building
In any friendly province, three types of buildings can be
constructed.  These are a fort, a temple and a lab.  Anyone
can construct a fort, a sacred commander is required to
build a temple and a mage is required to build a laboratory.
Demolish Building
Demolishing a building can be done by anyone and only
takes one month, regardless of whether it is a fort or a lab. 
Temples cannot be demolished, however enemy temples are
destroyed automatically as soon as they are conquered
without taking any extra time.  A fort cannot be demolished
if it is under siege.
Turn resolution sequence
All players’ turn orders are resolved simultaneously when a
turn is hosted.  During the hosting process, the game
resolves orders in the following order:
1. Send messages
Messages sent by using the Send Messages button are
dispatched.  This means that gold, gems, and items are always
sent, because everything that could stop this from happening
occurs later in the turn.
2. Research
Mages perform their research.  Even if a mage is assassinated
or otherwise killed, he will contribute his research points to his
nation that turn.
3. Recruitment
New units and commanders are recruited.  This means that
recruits will always be available during the turn, as nothing that
happens beforehand can stop them.
4. Empowerment
Increased magic paths due to Empowerment are conferred
here.
5. Forge items
New items are forged and placed in their nation’s magic item
inventory.
6. Preach
Priests preach the word of their god, and dominion is adjusted
accordingly.
7. Heretic preaching
Heretics, insane commanders and commanders with shattered
soul preach.
8. Claim thrones
Thrones of Ascension are claimed now.
9. Quick special orders
A few special orders are quicker than others, such as Enter Site
to Scry and Cultivate Pearls
10. Magic rituals
All mages cast their rituals in a random order.
11. Remote attacks
All rituals that strike enemy armies in remote provinces (e.g.
Fires from Afar) are resolved here.
12. Magic battles
All battles caused by magic are resolved.  For example,
commanders taken away by Wind Ride or teleporting to an
enemy province fight now. Retreats to adjacent provinces
occur after all battles have been resolved.
13. Lost in other planes
If a unit becomes lost in another plane, it happens now.  This
includes resolving battles fought in other planes.
14. Site searches
Magic site searches are resolved.
15. Prophets
Prophets are declared.
16. Call God
Priests call their gods who have been banished.
17. Awakening
Pretenders awaken (dormant or imprisoned)
18. Blood hunting
The hunt for blood slaves takes place.
19. Horrors
Units are visited by Horrors now, if such a misfortune should
befall them.
20. Assassinations
Assassination attempts are resolved, this includes all types of
seduction and spy abilities.  The battles are fought immediately.
21. Relinquish province
Commanders with the Relinquish Province order will relinquish
the province to any non-stealthed allied commander already
present in the same province.
22. Claim mounts
Commanders without mounts can claim new ones here if they
can find one.
23. Lone mounts
If there are any riders without mounts or any smart mounts
without riders they will try to make their way home here or
maybe disperse.
55
[[page 56]]
24. Friendly movement
All movement ending in a friendly province takes place now.  If
you are trying to get to a friendly province before an enemy
does, you will do it if you are not stopped by an event that takes
place in steps 1 through 21.
25. Other movement
All other movement, including Break Siege, takes place.
26. Resolve battles
All battle resolution from movement happens here.
27. Castle storming
Castles are stormed and battles resolved. Retreats to adjacent
provinces occur after all battles have been resolved (this
includes units that retreated in the previous step).
28. Global enchantments
Global enchantments take effect on the world.  Note that the
casting takes place during the Rituals step (10), though.
29. Random events
Like it says.  This is where those Fortune/Misfortune events
happen.
30. Resolve battles
Battles caused by these events happen now. Retreats to
adjacent provinces occur after all battles have been resolved.
31. Magic items/monsters
Special effects from magic items (or monsters) take place.  The
items themselves are forged during the Forge step (5) though,
and any rituals cast with the help of magic items are resolved
during the Rituals step (10).
32. Resolve battles
Any battles caused by the previous are resolved now. Retreats
to adjacent provinces occur after all battles have been
resolved.
33. Sneak discovery
Stealthy units have been discovered!  If so, they fight now for
their lives. Retreats to adjacent provinces occur after all battles
have been resolved.
34. Change besieger
If two allies are besieging the same castle, the one who is
besieging is decided now.  Larger armies take precedence.
35. Building construction
Fortresses, temples, and labs are built (or demolished). Forts
melting also take place here.
36. Special orders
Special orders like Reanimate or Summon Allies are performed.
Thus, allies summoned during a turn will not be available for
that turn’s battles.
37. Pillage
The Pillage order increases unrest and kills population.
38. Income
All nations collect income for their provinces.  Note that this
comes after Pillage, meaning that if you pillage a province you
conquered, you will gain reduced income from it, or perhaps no
income at all.
39. Unrest alterations
Changes in unrest from dominion, scales, and patrolling are
reflected.
40. Starvation
Units without supplies suffer starvation effects.  This means
that the first turn an army goes without supplies, it will fight its
battles without starvation effects, since all battles occur in
previous steps.
41. Upkeep / Desertion
Unit upkeep is paid for.  Note that this is after income is
collected for the turn.  Desertion happens now as well.
42. Dominion spread
All dominion spread (for whatever reason) is conducted now.
43. Dominion effects
Special effects of dominion (population death, insanity,
spreading heat or cold etc.) are applied.
44. Site effects
Magic sites spread disease, unrest, and the like, if they have
such an effect.
45. Overpopulation
A rare occurrence:  if we get close to the limit of 600,000 units
or 50000 commanders in the world, some of the most
numerous ones will be killed to keep the game running
smoothly.
46. Aging
This step only occurs during midwinter. Units age and get one
year older. If they are too old they might get an affliction here,
e.g. disease.
47. Resolve battles
Any leftover battles caused by previous events are resolved.
Retreats to adjacent provinces occur after all battles have been
resolved.
48. Heal / Disease
All units regain lost hit points, unless they are diseased, in
which case they suffer more damage instead and may incur
more afflictions.
49. Insanity
Units may go insane, from certain dominion or other effects.
50. Mercenaries
Mercenaries are bought or maintained.
51. New random heroes
Heroes may appear at a nation's capital gates.
56
[[page 57]]
52. Kill lone units
Lone units (non-commanders) in enemy provinces are killed.  If
there are units without commanders inside enemy territory
they will be killed here to prevent them from making any
pointless attacks.
53. Reclaim provinces
If a fort does not own the province it is in and it is not under
siege, it will take ownership of the province.  This can happen in
team games where the province and the fort might have
different owners from the same team.  This step is resolved in
favor of the owner of the fort.
54. Conscription
Province Defence is raised to a minimum of one and Dominion
and Commander effects to raise the PD take effect.
55. Scouting
New scouting reports are generated for each player.
56. Elimination
Players without any provinces or dominion are eliminated from
the game.
57. Victory
If a victory condition is fulfilled, the game declares a winner and
ends.
58. Update stats
Hall of Fame and scoregraphs are updated.
59. Heroic abilities
Units gain and improve heroic abilities.
60. Reform Immortals
Immortals that are due to return will reform their bodies here.
61. Reduce PD
Province defense is reduced if the population cannot support
the current level.  At least 10 population is required for each
point of province defense.
62. Yearning artifacts
If any new artifacts become yearning, it will happen now.
63. Aftermath
The game validates orders and items, changes shapes if
necessary, etc.
Combat
Combat is what happens when two discovered enemy forces
occupy the same location on the map.  If one force or both
forces are undiscovered, no combat will occur.  Thus, a
stealthy force may move right through an enemy and not
trigger combat.  Thus, both forces are not discovered.  Two
forces which are both discovered may occupy the same
province, but one might be in a fortress which has not yet
been breached.  In this case, the forces are in different
locations (one in the fort, the other besieging in the
province).  When one army is in a fort and one army
besieges, the province is owned by the besieging player and
the fort is owned by the besieged. This situation is known as
partial ownership of the province. When the same player
owns both fort and province, the situation is known as full
ownership. Full and partial ownership of a province have
certain effects in-game (e.g. some events cannot happen in a
partially owned province because they require full
ownership as a precondition to happening).
Once combat occurs, units move according to their tactical
movement allowance on a grid placed over the map.  You
can toggle this grid by hitting the [g] key or the [w] key.
Players can find battles overwhelming.  This can easily
happen if you try to follow every swing of every weapon.  It's
not necessary.
It is important to understand that battles in Dominions are
not fought to the death.  They are fought until one side loses
its nerve and routs.  As will be explained in the section to
follow, routing is based on losses and morale.  This allows
small units of elite troops to hold off masses of undisciplined
barbarians.
Here are some basic points to understand about combat. 
Details will be discussed later on in this section.
57
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
Raterik is a strange and secretive knight.  As a youth, he befriended a black unicorn and the magical steed gave the peasant boy the 
opportunity to join the Black Order.  Several of the older members of the Order complained about the peasant, but so far he has not 
failed in his tasks.  Raterik has proven himself a resourceful and able commander. 
 Hildegard was the only child of the late Hochmeister of the Black Order.  Her father taught her how to fight and wanted her to join the 
Order, but she was a strong-willed woman who didn’t like the Order’s strict hierarchical organization.  She decided to become a 
freelance warrior and as such, she has become known and respected.  During her more adventurous years, Hildegard befriended a 
unicorn who still accompanies her.
[[page 58]]
* Units are deployed on the battlefield corresponding to the
Army Setup screen under Position squads.
* The attacker is on the left, the defender on the right.
* Units move across the battlefield in accordance with the
instructions in <set battle orders>
* When units move adjacent to an enemy, they halt due to a
"zone of control"
* Once units are adjacent, they attack each other every turn.
* The chance of scoring a hit in melee depends on the difference
between attack and defense values
* The chance of scoring a hit with missile weapons depends on
the number of units in square the missile hits, and how good the
target's shield is (if it has one).
* The chance of doing damage after scoring a hit depends on the
attacker's strength and weapon damage versus the defender's
protection.
* Magic in combat works a lot like missile weapons (see page
65)
* Morale is calculated for each squad.  A squad takes a morale
check when it suffers enough casualties.
* A squad routs when it fails a morale check.
* Battles are fought until one side routs off the map:  the other
side is said to have won the battle
* Troops will rout when all of their commanders have been killed
or routed. The entire army will rout when their side loses 75%
of its total hit points
So if you kill or rout all of an army's commanders, the whole
army will rout.  It does not matter how big it is.  The biggest
army in the universe (of Dominions) will rout if it is led by a
single commander, and he is killed or routed.
(For this reason, there is no "attack commanders" order. 
You will have to figure out how best to do this yourself!)
Battles View
When you get a report on a battle, you can click on the
message “There was a battle in <province name>”. This gives
you the battle summary with the casualty lists. Clicking the
“View battle” text will take you into the battle replay.
The battles in Dominions are actually very detailed tactical
resolutions fought at the level of the individual fighters,
mages, and priests.  Each unit has its own equipment and
abilities.  They move and fight according to these
parameters, according to the battle sequence.  When you
watch the battle replay, you can see what happened with
various degrees of detail.  There is a box in the upper left
which describes the action.  You can change the level of
detail in this box by hitting the number keys: [1] for least
detail, [2-3] for more detail, and [4] for most detail.
Other useful keys when viewing battles are:
Arrow for scrolling around the map
PageUp / for adjusting the camera height
PageDown
Space for pausing the action
c for toggling colored squares for the teams
g for toggling grid
w for toggling the wire frame grid (battlefield
graphics disappear from view)
q to quit out of the battle replay
f speed up battle replay to fast speed
t speed up battle replay to fastest speed
s switch battle replay back to normal speed
v while viewing a unit, this key will show its
combat log
z slow motion replay (useful when using greatest
amount of detail to see what happens and
when)
F1 Obtain a list of all the units
F2 View current weather and dominion scales
? View the available hotkeys
1 / 2 / 3 / 4 adjusts the level of detail in the battle log
(upper left text box describing the battle action)
+ - scroll the battle log
Battle sequence
When combat is started, the attacker is placed on the left
side of the screen and the defender on the right.  All units
are placed on the battlefield according to their setup.  They
will then proceed to follow whatever orders they have been
given (attack, cast spells) until they rout or the battle ends.
Army Setup
Units in Dominions 6 are placed into squads, which are
under the leadership of a commander.  A single commander
can lead up to five squads.
The total number of units a commander can lead is
designated by the Leadership rating found in the unit
abilities.  Clicking on this rating gives further details of the
commander's leadership limits, such as how many magical
beings or undead may be led.  This is important, as not all
commanders have the skill to give orders to magic monsters.
58
[[page 59]]
And undead and demons don't take orders from just
anybody either.
Squad limits related to leadership values
* Leadership 10: automatic -1 to morale for a single squad. An
additional -1 to all squads for every squad beyond the first (so
five squads = -1 base penalty and -4 for four extra squads = -5).
* Leadership 50: No morale penalty if leading one or two squads.
-1 penalty for every additional sq.
* Leadership 100: +1 morale for all squads if three or fewer. -1
penalty to morale for every squad above three.
* Leadership 150: +2 morale for up to 4 squads, -1 penalty to all
if fifth squad added.
* Leadership 200: +3 morale for all five squads.
The morale effects of leadership rating are based on the
base leadership rating of the commander.  Commanders
gain more leadership with experience, so a highly
experienced commander with a base leadership of 50 might
be able to lead up to 175 units or more, but the morale
bonuses still stay the same.
Experience level Leadership bonus Poor leaders (ldr 10)
1 +25 +5
2 +50 +10
3 +50 +10
4 +50 +10
5 +50 +10
Other effects on morale:
* Mixing undisciplined units with normal makes entire squad
undisciplined and hits them with -1 morale
* Mixing undead with living gets a morale penalty of -1
* Mixing demons with normal units gets a morale penalty of -1
Each unit is placed on the map in a grid square.  A single grid
square can hold a total of ten size points of units.  For
human-sized units (size 3), this means three units can fit in a
grid square.
Unassigned units (those in the garrison box at the top of the
Army Setup screen) are formed into one large squad.  They
begin at the center of their side's army.
Formations
Formations are the patterns used to deploy units of a squad
onto the map.  There are five types of formations, some of
which can only be used by good leaders.
Box
A box formation deploys your units in as close to a square as
possible.  For example, a squad of 36 Infantry of Ulm (size 3)
deployed in a box formation would be placed with four squares
frontage and three squares deep, yielding 12 squares of three
units each.
Line
A line formation deploys your units in a straight line facing the
enemy.  This formation is only available to good commanders.
Double line
A double line is the same as a line except half the units are
placed in a rank immediately behind the first line.  This
formation is only available to good commanders.
Sparse line
A sparse line formation is identical to a line, except that an
empty square is inserted between each square of units.  This
doubles the length of the line.  It carries a -1 penalty to the
squad's morale.  This formation is only available to good
commanders.
Skirmish
Skirmish formation forms a box-like checkerboard formation
which separates each square of units from its neighbors with an
empty square in four directions, as above.  It has a -1 penalty to
morale.
Undisciplined squads automatically use the skirmish
formation and cannot use any other.  Adding an
undisciplined unit to a squad makes the whole squad
undisciplined.
The ability Tight Rein negates the undisciplined trait of a
commander's units, enabling other formations as well as
giving specific orders to undisciplined units.
The Skirmisher ability negates the -1 morale penalty when
59
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
Bandar Log is a very hierarchical society.  Markatas are the smallest of the monkey people and their intellect is barely above that of 
simple beasts.  Markatas are small, noisy, and annoying, especially when met in large numbers.  If alone, they can be used as scouts, but 
when in greater numbers, they quickly become bored and start to make noise and play with each other.  They are generally despised by 
the larger monkeys and apes.  They are sometimes given small bows.  This pleases them no end, but they still are not very useful soldiers.
[[page 60]]
the unit is deployed in a skirmish or sparse line formation.
The ability Formation Fighter allows you to fit more units in
a square.
Battlefield movement
Each unit in combat has combat speed.  A move of one
square on the battlefield costs roughly one point of combat
speed, unless it is diagonal in which case it costs 50% more.
When units move adjacent to an enemy, they become locked
in a “zone of control” which remains as long as the enemy
persists. However, fleeing units do not care about zone of
controls and just run regardless of danger and nearby
enemies.
Usually there can only be 10 size points in a single square
and a unit is unable to enter a square if that results in the
square being too full. However, giants or other monsters
that are considerably larger than the other units will be able
to enter the square by displacing the smaller units. The large
unit must be at least 3 size points larger than any displaced
unit and it will cost one extra point of combat speed.
Note that trampling units will never try to displace anyone
as long as they are not routing, as that would cause damage
to the friendly units.
Each unit moves individually, and has a cooldown at the end
of each action.  After a unit moves one step or strikes, it
must cool down a while before it can perform its next action.
A long cooldown is one round (after a strike) and a short
cooldown comes after a move.  There is some small amount
of randomness to this cooldown value, but when moving it is
mostly determined by the unit’s combat move, so faster
units will wait a shorter time before taking the next action. 
If two units are adjacent, the unit that finishes its cooldown
first will get to strike next.
Melee combat
Melee combat is the act of one combatant (soldier, priest,
monster, or divine being) physically striking another
combatant in some way.  At its heart, it is very simple.
The attacker makes an attack roll.  The defender makes a
defense roll.  These are compared.  If the attack roll (with
modifiers) is greater than the defense roll, it hits.  If not, it
misses.
The attack and defense rolls are modified by a random
number (which is added) and a fatigue penalty (which is
subtracted).
Attack roll: attacker's Attack attribute + DRN - Fatigue penalty
Defense roll: defender's Defense value + DRN - Fatigue penalty
Once a hit is scored, a similar calculation is done to
determine how much damage is done.  This involves the
attacker's damage roll minus the defender's protection roll.
Damage roll: attacker's Strength attribute + weapon Damage
attribute + DRN
Protection defender's Protection attribute + DRN (+ shield
roll: Protection if it is a "shield hit")
If the defender has a shield, the hit is a shield hit unless the
attack beats the combined value of the target's defense and
the shield's Parry value plus the random roll.  If a hit is
scored as a shield hit, the shield's Protection is added to the
defender's protection roll.
Example:  A Heavy Infantry unit has a broad sword, chain
mail hauberk, half helmet and shield.  It has a base defense of
10, gets a defense bonus of +1 from the sword, a defense
penalty of -2 from the armor, and a defense penalty from the
shield of -1.  The shield's Parry value is 4.  The actual defense
is 10 +1 -2 -1 = 8.  With the shield's Parry value, the unit's
total defense is 12.
The Heavy Infantry is attacked by a Vanjarl of Vanheim,
which has attack 14.  Neither unit has any fatigue yet.  The
Vanjarl rolls a 6, for a total attack value of 20.  If the Heavy
Infantry rolls a 7 or less, it is a clean hit and the shield offers
no protection.  If the Heavy Infantry rolls an 8 through 11,
the Vanjarl scores a shield hit and the Heavy Infantry can
use its shield's protection value in the damage calculation.  If
the Heavy Infantry rolls a 12 or higher, the Vanjarl misses
entirely.
The Protection value used is the target's listed Protection
value, unless it is a head hit.  In case of a headshot, the
target's helmet Protection value is used instead of the main
Protection value.  However, if it is a shield hit, the shield
Protection is still added.  The blow is assumed to have
glanced off the shield and hit the target in the head.
If the damage roll is greater than the protection roll, the
difference is subtracted from the target's hit points.  If the
protection roll is equal to or greater than the damage roll,
60
[[page 61]]
there is no effect.
Armor defeating hits
A low protection roll may result in an armor defeating hit
that bypasses 25% of the protection. This in addition to the
protection roll being very low is likely to result in a serious
wound.
Fatigue plays a large role in enabling armor defeating hits
and units that are immobilized or unconscious counts as
having 100 fatigue for this purpose.
* Protection roll of 2 always results in an armor defeating hit
* Protection roll of 3 results in an armor defeating hit against
targets with 50 or more fatigue
* Protection roll of 4 results in an armor defeating hit against
targets with 100 or more fatigue
Note that it is very hard to score an armor defeating hit on
an unfatigued and not immobilized unit.
Shield destruction
Shield hits can damage or destroy the shield.  A shield has a
Resistance, which is the same as its shield protection value,
+5 if the shield is a magic one.  The attack has a Break value,
which is equal to the damage of the attack before any
Protection.  Slashing attacks add 50% to damage when
calculating break value, and blunt attacks add 25%.
If the Break value is >= 3x the Shield Resistance, the shield is
damaged. If the Break value is >= 5x the Shield Resistance,
the shield is broken.
An already-damaged shield which is damaged again has a
25% chance of being broken.
A damaged shield has -20% Protection, a broken shield has
-50% Protection.
A magic shield (a real, equipable one) that is damaged will
repair itself after the battle.  If a magic shield is broken, it
will be permanently destroyed and the commander will
revert to his or her standard shield if he or she had one. 
Damaged or broken mundane shields will be repaired when
they are in a province with enough spare production
resources.
Hit locations
Dominions 6 uses anatomical locations to determine where
an adversary was struck.  An attack has a 50% chance of
striking the adversary in the torso, 20% chance to strike the
arms, 20% chance to strike the legs, and 10% chance to
strike the head.  Certain hits can cause afflictions, such as
losing a limb.  If someone loses a limb, it will be the one
which was hit.  This can be an arm, leg, or head.  Losing your
head is usually instant death, but this is not always true, for
example in the case of undead and certain kinds of
regenerating monsters, or those with multiple heads.  Other
types of afflictions include losing an eye, which can only
happen on a head hit.
In order to score a hit on a certain part of the body, however,
the attacker must be able to reach it.  To score a head hit,
attacker size + weapon length must be equal to target size. 
This requirement is one less to hit the torso and two less to
hit the arms.  Thus a human (size 3) wielding a mace (length
1) could hit a size-7 creature only in the legs!
Some monsters have their heads located lower than their
size would indicate and therefore anyone attacking them
will get a bonus to their reach. Lizards and dragons are very
low and are two steps easier to hit when striking anything
higher than the legs. Most four-footed beings like elephants
and wolves are slightly lower than a humanoid would be and
are one step easier to reach. Their lower stature does not
mean they are more likely to be hit in the head (or any other
hard-to-reach location). It is still only a 10% chance, but
attackers with shorter weapons might be able to reach and
hit them in the head in situations where their size might
otherwise prevent it.
Also, some monsters lack certain hit locations.  For example,
a dragon has no arms and a gelatinous cube has no arms,
legs, or head.
A significantly larger unit that attacks a smaller one will
have an increased chance of hitting its target in the head and
a lower chance of hitting it in the leg (20% head, 10% leg). 
To be considered “significantly larger” it must be 2 sizes
larger (if mounted the mount's size is used).
Weapon types
Melee weapons in Dominions 6 come in three different
types:  slashing, piercing, and blunt.  Each type has different
effects when calculating damage.  These are all calculated
after the Damage vs. Protection calculation above, except
for Piercing weapons which reduce Protection prior to the
calculation.
61
[[page 62]]
Blunt weapons do 25% more damage when scoring head hits
before the Protection value is deducted.  They score 25%
more damage toward shield destruction.
Slashing weapons do 25% more damage after Protection is
deducted.  They do 50% more damage toward shield
destruction.  If a slashing weapon scores a leg, arm, or head
hit that costs a target greater than or equal to 50% of its hit
points, that body part will be chopped off.  If a head is
chopped off, this will kill the target if it had a head that was
required for it to stay alive. (For example, a hydra does not
fit that description.)
Piercing weapons reduce Protection by 15% prior to any
calculation.  This is the same mechanic as the Armor-
Piercing ability, except that Armor-Piercing reduces
Protection by 50%.  The Armor-Piercing ability stacks with
the piercing weapon type for a total of 65% reduction in
armor.
Two-handed weapons add 125% of Strength to damage.
Underwater effects
Slashing and blunt weapons have an attack penalty equal to
weapon length underwater, while piercing weapons do not.  If a
weapon does both piercing damage as well as another type, the
underwater penalty is halved.  Flails have an additional penalty
of -1.
A weapon may be able to inflict more than one type of
damage.  If so, it has an equal chance of doing each type of
damage, but will only do one of them during that attack.  For
example, the short sword does both slashing and piercing
damage.  It has a 50% chance of doing one of these.  If it does
not do piercing, it will do slashing, but never both.
Note that these weapon types apply to all sorts of weapons,
not just maces, swords, and spears.  A spider's venomous
fangs can do piercing damage, for example.
In addition, weapons may have additional special effects,
such as doing additional fire damage when it hits someone.
Damage is displayed in colored numbers above the unit that
suffered the damage. Pale red is normal damage, dark red is
bleeding, green is poison, etc. This can be very helpful in
determining the effectiveness of your units and tactics.
Harassed
Every time a unit is attacked, it gets a point of harassment
penalty.  Each point of harassment penalty reduces the
unit’s defense by 1.  It is then reduced continuously by a
percentage, so it goes down quickly if it is high and the unit is
no longer being attacked.
For cavalry units only the unit attacked (the rider or the
horse) will be affected. I.e. an attack against the rider will not
give any harassment penalty to the horse.
A weapon with multiple attacks inflicts 1 point of
harassment penalty for each one of its multiple attacks.
Only directed melee attacks will result in harassment
penalty, ranged and AoE attacks do not incur any penalty.
Fatigue
Fatigue is affected by a unit’s encumbrance value.  The more
encumbered it is, the more fatigued it will become during
combat.  Each time it attacks, it gains Fatigue equal to its
current Encumbrance value.  Fatigue affects units as follows.
Defense penalty for fatigue
For each 10 points of fatigue (rounded down) a unit has its
defense reduced by 1.
Attack penalty for fatigue
For each 20 points of fatigue (rounded down) a unit has its
attack reduced by 1.
Unconsciousness
A unit falls unconscious when it reaches 100 fatigue.  Each
turn it is unconscious it regains 5 fatigue until it become
conscious again (i.e. fatigue drops below 100).  A unit with
200 fatigue starts to take hit point damage from exhaustion
instead of fatigue when additional fatigue damage is taken.
Repel
Repel is how Dominions represents the effectiveness of long
weapons, such as halberds, pikes, and the like.  If a unit
attacks an enemy who has a longer weapon than the
attacker, the defender may actually repel the attack and
prevent it from happening.  This occurs as follows:
Any defender that has a longer weapon than the one used by
its attacker makes a repel attack automatically upon being
attacked.  Attack and defense rolls are made.  If the result is
a hit, the attacker must pass a repel morale check or
immediately abort his attack.  If the attacker passes the
repel morale check, he may make his attack, but the
62
[[page 63]]
defender’s attack then generates damage and protection
rolls.  If damage is inflicted, the attacker takes one point of
damage and continues his attack.
Repel morale check
Attacker morale check: morale + DRN - (weapon length
difference)
Repeller check: 10 + DRN + (the number by which the defender
won the repel attack) / 2
This simulates the defender successfully placing his longer
weapon between himself and the attacker.  All of this occurs
before the attacker’s strike is resolved.  Note that units with
low morale are more likely to be repelled, and thus using
long weapons against low-morale troops is very effective. 
Also, units with claws and bites (weapon length zero) are
easier to repel.
The repelling unit gets a lingering -2 to its Repel roll which is
gradually removed over a short period of time.  So it’s harder
to repel attacks when they come in quick succession, and
easier if they are spaced out in time.
Giant sized units (size 6+) wield longer weapons than normal
humans. The length of their weapons are 1 point longer than
ordinary human weapons. So a giant wielding a mace (length
2 for giants) would be able to repel humans with ordinary
maces.
Multiple attacks
Some units have multiple attacks.  This may be due to
multiple weapons, or just multiple methods of attack like
biting, clawing, or many tentacles.
Multiple attacks can target different units as long as there
are many in reach. Some rare weapons (e.g. flail) have more
than one attack, these attacks always target the same unit
and if he dies on the first attack the second one is wasted.
Multiple weapons
Attackers with multiple weapons have their attack skill
reduced by the sum of their weapon lengths.  Thus, it is much
easier to fight with two daggers than with two swords.  The
Ambidextrous ability reduces this penalty by the amount of
the Ambidextrous skill.  Some weapons are considered
intrinsic to a unit and do not cause multiple weapon
penalties for the attacker. These are called bonus weapons.
For example, some lizardmen of C'tis might have both a
trident and a bite attack. This bite is considered a bonus
weapon because it is not a wielded weapon and it will not
result in any multiple weapon penalty.
Units with multiple wielded weapons also get one point of
extra encumbrance for each weapon after the first.
Melee attack resolution
There are many special abilities that can affect units that are
fighting in melee and the order in which they take effect can
be important. Here is a list of when most abilities take effect
when doing a melee attack.
Determine target
Determine which unit in the square will be the target. This will
be a single unit or mount.
Early strikeback effects
This is certain longer range defensive abilities of the defender,
e.g. Awe and the Gorgon's petrifying gaze. If the attacker ends
up immobilized for any reason the attack is aborted now.
Repel
Check for repel and abort the attack if it is repelled.
Strikeback effect
This is effects like Slimer, Sight Vengeance, Horror Mark
Attacker and many others. If the attacker ends up immobilized
for any reason the attack is aborted now.
Attack and Defence rolls
The attacker rolls his attack value and the defender his defence
value. If the attack missed completely it is aborted.
Damage and Protection rolls
Rolls for damage and protection are rolled now. Protection
from shields will be added if the previous step indicated a shield
hit.
Defensive abilities
Here abilities like Mirror Image, Protective Force, Luck,
Mossbody and many more take effect and may reduce damage
or negate the attack completely.
Limb cap
If the attack hit an arm or a leg (or a head in the case of a certain
beings that can live without those), the damage will be limited
to at most half of the maximum HP.
Damage Redistribution
If the defender has Damage Reversal, Blood Bond or Blood
Vengeance it will take effect now and maybe shift the damage
to other targets or maybe even kill the attacker. Killing the
attacker in this stage will not negate the attack.
63
[[page 64]]
Deal damage
Deal damage to the target as well as any shields that might
have been hit.
Dancing Weapons
Some magic items like the Dancing Trident or the Stone
Birds will float around their wielder and attack nearby
enemies.  These weapons attack independently of their
owner and do not incur any multiple weapon penalty or
fatigue.  They will cause harass penalty to whomever they
attack, just as normal attacks do.  These weapons strike at
different times in the combat round and when or if their
owner is attacking does not matter.
Dancing weapons cannot be repelled, but they can repel
attacks aimed at their owner if they are longer than the
attacking weapon.  Dancing Weapons with more than 2
attacks per round get one point of repel attack bonus per
number of attacks over 2.  Dancing weapons also get an
increased repel penalty if they try to repel repeatedly in a
short time, but the penalty is only half of that for a normal
repelling unit.
Mounted Units
Some combat units like cavalry and chariots are formed
from two or more separate units combined as a single entity.
These are referred to as mounted units.
The individual parts of a rider and its mount can be targeted
and wounded separately and if one dies the other will
remain on the battlefield. A horse without rider will rout
from the battle, but some monsters like the gryphon will
stay and fight even if its rider perishes.
Hitting mounted units
When a mounted unit is attacked either the rider or the
mount is targeted. The chances of hitting the rider vs the
mount is based on the difference of their sizes and the reach
of the attacking unit. If a mount has multiple riders, the size
of the largest rider will be used. The reach of a unit is its size
plus the length of its weapon.
First of all, mounts that are much larger than its rider have
an extra chance of getting hit according to the following
table.
Size difference Chance of targeting mount
3 25
4 50
5+ 75
If the mount wasn't large enough or the attack didn't target
the mount, the attack will choose a target according to the
following rules instead.
* Missile attacks have 50% chance of targeting the mount
* If the mount's size is 2 larger than the reach, the mount will be
targeted
* Otherwise chance of targeting mount is 30% + 10% * mount's
size - 10% * reach. (Chance cannot be lower than 10%).
Some attacks work a bit differently and target one specific
unit or both units.
* All AoE attacks will target both rider and mount.
* Lightning will target both rider and mount.
* Trample will always target the mount.
Mounted units and magic items
It is possible to put a single magic saddle or barding on a
commander's mount.  If the mount should be a commander
for some reason it can have its own misc items too, but that
is rare and usually only a single magic saddle or barding is
allowed.  However, it is possible for the mount to take
advantage of some of the rider's magic items as well as
certain items will bestow some or all of their effects to the
mount as well.  This is indicated in the magic item
information if that is the case.
It is very cumbersome to use two-handed weapons while
mounted and doing so will result in a -3 attack penalty.
Rider skill
Some riders are exceptionally skilled and have the Skilled
Rider ability.  This ability will increase the Morale and
Defence Skill of the mount.  The defence increase is most
effective on lightly armored horses as it is reduced by the
encumbrance value of the mount's armor.
Mounted units and morale
Unnatural fear effects (e.g. Fear auras or Terror spells) will
usually target both the rider and the mount.  If the rider is
routed he will leave the battle together with his mount.  If
only the mount is broken, the rider is thrown to the ground
and the mount routs from battle, but the rider fights on.  If
64
[[page 65]]
both are broken by a fear effect, the rider will be thrown off
and then both will retreat separately.
Falling off a mount deals a size difference open ended roll of
AN damage. Falling off a chariot does not result in any fall
damage however.
Normal rout checks that affect the entire squad or army will
only affect the rider.  When the rider flees this way he will
flee together with his mount.
Rerecruiting mounted units
When a rider loses his mount he will need to get a new one. 
If there are riderless mounts of the appropriate type that
survived or fled the battle, the rider will claim one of these
and remain in the army.  If on the other hand there are no
surviving mounts to claim the rider will leave the army and
return to his home province.  This might take a few turns if
the rider is far from home.  The traveling rider will not be
affected by province ownership, but he will need to roll
morale checks every turn.  A failed check means the rider
has deserted, lost his way or been killed.  If the rider arrives
in his home province a new mounted unit can be recruited at
half cost.  A small blue number next to the unit icon in the
recruitment screen indicates how many available returned
riders are present.  When rerecruited this new unit retains
his identity including experience and battle afflictions.
Normal mounts do not return to their home province, but
mounts with the tag 'Smart Mount' will.  Just like returning
riders they will add to the number of available half-cost
recruits that are available.  Smart mounts, like riders, retain
their experience and afflictions.
Mounted commanders do not return to their home province
if left without mount.  If there are regular units with the
appropriate mount they will just claim one of these and
force the rider of that mount to return home instead.  If
there are no appropriate mounts the commander will
remain in the army without mount.  However he can spend a
month and use the order 'Reclaim Mount' to get a new
mount.
A few types of riders will automatically regain their mounts.
Missile combat
Missile combat is different from melee combat in that it
doesn’t use defense values.  Instead, the game determines
which square a missile hits, depending on a unit’s Precision,
and the range of the attack.  If there are units in the square,
they may be hit, whether they are friendly or enemy. 
Missiles can’t distinguish friend from foe.
If the range from attacker to target is greater than
Precision/2 – 2 (half the Precision, minus 2) then the missile
will deviate from the target.  The amount of deviation is
equal to the range x 1.25 / Precision.
The game will randomly determine whether the missiles
deviate long or short, left or right, or some combination.  The
actual distribution is a bell curve – most projectiles will fall
within the middle of the deviation range, but some will land
at the extremes.
Once the game decides where a missile lands (even if it is far
away, that square is affected), any unit in that square may be
targeted.  The size of the units relative to one another
influences who will be hit.  If a square with a giant of size 6
and a human of size 3 is hit, the giant will be struck two times
out of three. Once the target has been decided, there is a hit
calculation that uses the following values:
Attacker: DRN + (Size points in the square)/2 +2 if magic
weapon
Defender: DRN + (shield parry value x2) – (Fatigue / 20)
If the attacker’s roll is greater than the defender’s then a hit
is achieved.  Damage is calculated identically to melee
combat (see above).  Most missile weapons add one-half of
the unit’s Strength to the weapon damage value (plus a
random number).  Crossbows and some other weapons are
armor-piercing, meaning that only half of the defender’s
Protection value is used.  Some spells can even be
“armor-negating,” which means that armor affords no
protection.  Lightning spells are armor-negating.  Fire spells
are armor-piercing.
Precision values greater than 10 count double for the
amount above 10.  Thus, a Precision value of 12 is actually
calculated as Precision 14.
Thus, the more units in a square, or the bigger the units in a
square, and the more tired they are, the more likely
someone is going to be hit by a missile weapon landing in
that square.
While it may seem that missile units can’t shoot very far
without having their shots deviate hopelessly, in practice
massed units can deal severe damage to an enemy simply
65
[[page 66]]
due to the number of projectiles in the air.  Everything that
goes up has to come down somewhere!
Special damage
Some types of damage can cause the target to sustain
additional damage.  Others inflict their damage gradually, or
increase fatigue instead of reducing hit points.  These
include fire, cold, poison, fatigue, paralysis, and drain.
Some units are not as susceptible to certain kinds of
damage.  In Dominions, this is represented by the concept of
resistances.  This works similar to protection, but damage is
also reduced by a percentage after the resistance is
deducted from the damage.  The reduction is equal to twice
the resistance value.  This means that a unit with fire
resistance 50 is completely immune to fire damage.
Example:  A Pillar of Fire spell with 35 fire damage hits an
unarmored unit with 15 fire resistance and an armor with
protection 10. The damage DRN is 11 resulting in a total of
46 fire damage.  Pillar of Fire is armor-piercing, so the armor
only gives protection 5, but the fire resistance gives its full
value of 15.  The protection DRN is only 6 and results in a
total protection value of 26.  The difference is 20 points of
damage, which is reduced by 30% (twice the fire resistance
value).  In the end the target suffers 14 points of damage.
Elemental resistances give double protection against
attacks that cause fatigue damage.  So Shock Resistance 5
would reduce fatigue effects from thunder by 10.  Shock
Resistance 15 would thus give protection of 30 from the
fatigue damage of a Thunder Strike.
Fire damage
Fire is generally armor-piercing, which means that a unit
only gains half its normal benefit from Protection. In
addition, a unit may catch fire, which will subject it to
additional burning damage until the fire goes out.  Fire
fatigue damage only counts as 1/3 when determining the
chance of catching fire.
Chance of catching fire
Fire damage before protection x 4%
A unit that is burning takes (1d(size))/2 damage each turn
until the fire goes out.  In other words a die with a number of
sides equal to the size of the unit and with the result divided
by 2 (rounded up).  So for a size 8 unit it would be (1d8)/2). 
This damage is halved for units with 5 or more points of Fire
Resistance.  The chance of the fire going out is:
Chance of putting out fire
25% + (fire resistance) + (cold scale x5) + (100% if raining)
All fire have a minimum 1% chance of being extinguished. 
Fire vulnerability counts as negative fire resistance.  Units
with 10 or more fire resistance, units with chill auras, units
with mistform and ethereal units, cannot burn.
If the province has heat scales instead, this is treated as
negative cold.
Cold damage
A unit suffering cold damage may freeze.  It will then take
additional fatigue damage until it thaws.
A unit that is freezing takes 2d6 additional fatigue points of
fatigue damage each turn until it thaws.  The chance of
thawing is:
Chance of thawing
25% + (cold resistance) + (heat scale x5)
There is always a minimum of 1% chance of thawing each
round.  Cold vulnerability counts as negative cold resistance.
Units with 10 or more cold resistance, units with heat auras,
and ethereal units will never freeze.
Cold scales work like heat scales for burning: if it’s cold in
the province, the chance of thawing is reduced by the scales.
Profuse bleeding
A unit suffering from profuse bleeding suffers 10 fatigue and
takes HP/20 damage each round.  The chance of the
bleeding stopping in a round is:
Chance to stop bleeding
10% + (regeneration value)
The chance to stop bleeding is halved when fighting
underwater.
Poison damage
Poison works differently than fire or cold.  If a unit takes
poison damage, that damage will be suffered over multiple
rounds, which is the amount of time it takes the poison to
have its effect.  This damage is spread out as evenly as
66
[[page 67]]
possible.  First, a total amount of damage taken is calculated,
just like with any attack.  Then, each combat round, a unit
will take 10% of the remaining damage.
In addition to taking damage a unit that is under the effect of
poison will also have reduced attack and defence skill. The
skill penalty depends on how much poison is still remaining
in the unit.  The penalty is 25% for every dose equal to the
unit's full amount of HP, capped at a maximum of 50%.
So if a unit with 10 HP (when uninjured) takes 15 points of
poison damage, it will take 2,2,2,1,1,1,1,1,1,1 points of
damage (each number is in one round).  In the first three
rounds it will take 2 points per round, and in the last seven
rounds it will take 1 point per round.  In addition to taking
damage the units attack and defence will be reduced by
37.5% as soon as it gets poisoned, this penalty will then
decrease by time as the remaining amount of poison is
reduced.
Poison resistance has no effect on the duration of damage. 
Once the poison has taken hold, there is no additional
benefit to poison resistance.  It is useful only in reducing the
total amount of damage initially.
Shock damage
Shock damage can Stun a target. The chance of getting
stunned is:
Chance of getting stunned
5% + (percentage of hit points lost from this hit) / 2
Stun prevents the affected unit from taking any action for
one round.
Acid damage
Acid damage can inflict Rust.
Chance of equipment rusting
Acid damage before protection x 4%
Only units with iron weapons or iron armor can be affected
by Rust.
Rust
Rusty armor can be damaged if it takes a hit in combat.
Chance for Rusty armor to be damaged = damage inflicted
(before armor protection, but after shield protection) * 2%
Rusty weapons have a 25% chance of being damaged when
they inflict a hit on something.  Damaged weapons have
their damage reduced by 2, except for blunt weapons which
have their damage reduced by 1.
Life Drain damage
Life Drain damage is not extra damage, but instead is a way
for the attacker to restore his or her hit points and fatigue
by damaging an enemy.  Once damage has been calculated
(if the target is a living unit), the attacker with life drain
receives the following:
Benefits from life drain
Increases hit points with damage / 2
Reduces fatigue by damage x 2
Weapons with partial life drain are less potent, and only the
first 5 points of damage dealt are treated as drain.  The
remainder are considered normal damage only.
Life Drain cannot increase a unit’s hit points above 150% of
its maximum hit points +10.
Lifeless units only take 25% damage (after Protection) and
the damage will not heal the attacker in any way.  Lifeless
units with a life drain attack or weapon will receive the full
benefit from it.
Paralysis damage
Paralysis is a type of damage based in part on the victim’s
size.  It, as you might have guessed, paralyzes the target. 
The number of combat rounds the paralysis lasts (the
duration) is determined by the number of paralysis points
done.
Duration = (Damage – victim's Size) / 2
If that is all the paralysis damage taken, then the target is
only paralyzed for that many rounds.  However, if the target
takes additional paralysis damage, a new duration is
calculated, and the target takes half as many points of
damage as the lesser of the new or old duration.  In other
words
If already paralyzed, Damage = (minimum of old and new
duration) / 2
This damage can never exceed 5 points.
The new duration will be the greater of old and new
67
[[page 68]]
duration (not cumulative), so if the new attack has a longer
duration, the target will be paralyzed longer.
Fatigue damage
Fatigue damage adds to a unit’s fatigue rather than
subtracting from its hit points.  Units fall unconscious when
they reach 100 fatigue.  No unit can have more than 200
fatigue – each 50 fatigue points inflicted once a unit has
reached 200 inflicts 1 point of hit point damage.  If fewer
than 50 fatigue points are inflicted, the chance of taking 1
hit point of damage is (the number of fatigue points inflicted
x 2)%.
False damage
Illusions as well as most spells from the path of Glamour will
only cause false damage.  The false damage is kept real in the
mind of the victims with the help of glamour magic.  If all
enemy glamour mages die, the false damage will quickly
dissipate (2 points / round) without leaving any scars on the
victims.
The false damage feels real enough that someone taking
damage + false damage equaling his total HP will die
instantly.  False damage will never cause any afflictions,
apart from death.
False damage is shown as light purple numbers and dots in
the battle.
False damage will not trigger certain effects like Damage
Reversal, Blood Vengeance and Blood Bond.  Also
regeneration, life drain and healing spells will not heal false
damage.
Clouds
Certain beings, spells and attacks create battlefield clouds. 
E.g. a Hydra is surrounded by a poison cloud, a Fireball will
leave a lingering heat cloud where it strikes and an attack
with the magic Ice Mist Scimitar will create a large frost
cloud when it is swinged.
Battlefield clouds will dissipate quite fast if not replenished,
having their strength reduced by about 1 level per battle
round until it disappears.  Multiple clouds of the same type
cannot overlap, if there are many units spreading the same
type of cloud they will simply spread the cloud further away
instead.  However clouds can sometimes increase the level
of a cloud square by at most one level instead of spreading
further away.
Damage from clouds is always armor negating.  The
different type of clouds and their effects are listed in the
following tables:
Frost Cloud
Level 1 2 fatigue
Level 2 3 fatigue
Level 3 4 fatigue, 1 damage
Level 4 5 fatigue, 2 damage
Level 5+ 6+ fatigue, 3+ damage
(damage is capped to 1 unless unit is frozen)
Heat Cloud
Level 1 2 fatigue
Level 2 3 fatigue
Level 3 4 fatigue, 1 damage
Level 4 5 fatigue, 2 damage
Level 5+ 6+ fatigue, 3+ damage
Poison Cloud
Level 1 1 poison
Level 2 2 poison
Level 3+ 3+ poison
Disease Cloud
Level 1 disease (easy MR)
Level 2 disease (easy MR)
Level 3+ disease (MR)
Sulphur Cloud
Level 1 1 fire fatigue + 1 poison
Level 2 1 fire fatigue + 1 poison
Level 3 2 fire fatigue + 1 poison
Level 4 2 fire fatigue + 2 poison
Level 5 3 fire fatigue + 2 poison
Level 6 3 fire fatigue + 3 poison
Level 7 4 fire fatigue + 3 poison
(poison is capped to 1 point of damage)
Rust Cloud
Level 1 armor rusts
Level 2 armor rusts
Level 3+ armor rusts
Death Cloud
Level 1 1 damage (MR)
Level 2 2 damage (MR)
Level 3+ 3+ damage (MR)
68
[[page 69]]
Shimmering Light Cloud
Level 1 1 capped false damage (easy MR)
Level 2 1 capped false damage (MR)
Level 3 2 false damage (MR)
Level 4+ 3+ false damage (MR)
Leeching Cloud
Level 1 weakness (easy MR)
Level 2 weakness (easy MR), 1 damage (easy MR)
Level 3 weakness (MR), 1 damage (easy MR)
Level 4+ weakness (MR), 1 damage (MR)
(weakness decreases Str by 1 permanently)
(all damage is capped to 1)
Sleep Cloud
Level 1 sleep (easy MR)
Level 2 sleep (MR)
Level 3+ sleep (MR)
All type of clouds range from level 1 to 7. Sometimes the
effects of the different levels are the same and higher level
clouds will only last longer. All damage from clouds is armor
negating.
Monsters that spread clouds, e.g. Hydra and Ghost, spread
level 1 clouds.  As they are spread at level 1 they can
accumulate to at most a level 2 cloud. Spells and magic items
can create clouds at higher levels.
Heat Clouds and Frost Clouds cancel out each other and it is
not possible for both of them to be in the same square.
Morale and rout
Morale
Morale is a measure of how likely a squad is to keep fighting
after taking casualties.  Each unit has a morale value, but the
morale value that is checked is the morale level of the entire
squad.  Each squad has a morale level, which is the average
of all the morale ratings of the members of the squad.
Morale bonuses
A unit can have a number of modifiers to its morale.  For
example, Sacred units can be blessed, which increases their
morale by 1.  In addition, all units can gain the following
bonuses:
* +1 for fighting in friendly dominion
* +1 for fighting in a unit’s  home province (the province where it
was recruited)
* +x for a commander's leadership bonus (click on Leadership
attribute)  This is further modified by the formation in which
the unit is fighting, how many squads the commander is leading,
etc.
* +1 for every level of the Inspirational ability the squad's
commander has (can also be negative)
* +x if there is a unit with the Standard ability in the squad,
where x is the bonus from highest Standard
Morale, magic bonus
Many magic effects can modify a unit's magic bonus to
morale. This bonus can go from -10 to +1. Units with fear
will lower this bonus and priests can increase it with the
Sermon of Courage and Fanaticism spells. Most combat spell
that causes some kind of fear effect will also modify this
bonus.
The morale magic bonus will increase by 1 about every 2
rounds if it is negative. A positive bonus will last the entire
battle if left to itself.
Rout
During combat, squads will have their members killed and
wounded, and eventually they will take flight from the field. 
This is called routing, and happens to the entire squad.
Rout is normally checked by squad.  A squad which fails its
morale check routs.  A squad will check morale if:
In a few rare cases a unit routs independently from its
squad.  This might happen if a mount loses its rider.
* The squad has suffered “heavy losses” since the last morale
check, and its overall casualties are at least 20%
* The squad has four or fewer units left in it and at least one of
the units has taken damage this round
* The squad is near a monster causing Fear (e.g. an Abomination)
* The squad has been subjected to a spell causing Fear (e.g.
Terror). Note that the spells causing Frighten do not apply.
* The entire army has taken 50% or more of its total hit point
value in casualties.  In this case, morale will be checked every
turn for the remainder of the battle.  Retinues are excluded
from this "greater than 50% of army hit points" if there is
nothing more than one creature and its retinue.  This is a
special case.
69
[[page 70]]
“Heavy losses” is one wound for every two members of the
squad.  A “wound” is simply 1 or more hit points of damage
that reduces a unit to 80% or less of its normal hit points.  So
a unit with 25 hit points that is undamaged and suffers 4
points of damage does not count as having suffered a
“wound” for these purposes.  The next point of damage,
however, will reduce him to 80% of normal, and every hit
thereafter (even if for 1 point) will continue to satisfy these
criteria.  Units are very enthusiastic at the beginning of
battle, but less so after taking damage.
No matter how many times the above conditions are
satisfied, a squad cannot have its morale checked more than
once a turn.
Army rout
Once an army has taken 75% of its total hit point value in
casualties in a battle, it will automatically rout.
Mounts only have 25% of their HP count towards the army's
total HP. Any units from the Province Defence also only
have 25% of their HP count, they are expected to run. Slaves
are also expected to run and only have 50% of their HP
count.
Morale check
A morale check consists of two numbers, the morale roll and
the fear roll.  If the fear roll is greater than the morale roll,
the squad routs.  If not, the squad keeps fighting.  Although it
is called the “fear roll,” it applies to anything that checks
morale, not just fear.
Morale roll: squad morale + DRN + survivor bonus
Fear roll: 14 + DRN
The survivor bonus ranges from 0-5, depending on how
many of the squad’s original members are still alive.  The
smaller the proportion of survivors, the smaller the bonus. 
An intact (or almost intact) squad will get a bonus of 5.  A
squad that has been almost wiped out gets no bonus.
Rout effects
A routed unit will use all of its action points each turn to
move towards its own side of the battlefield and off the
friendly edge.
A routing unit suffers a -4 penalty to its defense skill.  Fast
units can be very effective at picking off enemy units that
are routing, as they have a better chance of catching them
before they exit the map.
Once a routing unit reaches the map edge, it is safe, and on
the turn after the battle will appear in a province adjacent to
the battle (see Retreat rules on page 72).  If a unit
retreats to an enemy province, it is destroyed.  A routed
army may scatter to multiple provinces after a battle,
requiring a commander to go collect it.  Routed units
suffering from profuse bleeding, poison, burning, decay or
other special damage will have the remainder of that
damage applied once they get off the map edge and may not
survive.  This represents the unit successfully fleeing the
battle but expiring of its wounds before finding help.
Units in a victorious army can rout off the map as well, since
a squad can rout while others are winning the battle.  If the
battle ends before the routing units exit the map, at the end
of the battle they remain with the victorious army.  If they
rout off the map before the battle ends, they scatter to
adjacent provinces.
Mindless units
Mindless units need to be under the control of a
commander.  If there are no unrouted commanders on the
battlefield eligible to command mindless units, remaining
mindless units on the field are automatically subject to
mindless dissolution.
If all eligible commanders (i.e. commanders who can
command mindless units) have been killed or routed, the
mindless beings become immobile and have a 33% chance
each turn of dissolving and vanishing from the battle.  They
will not move, but will attack adjacent units.
Magic beings and undead
These units have special leadership requirements, such as
magical leadership or undead leadership.  If such units are
on the battlefield without proper leadership, they will rout.
If a unit is both an undead and a magic being (such as the
manikins of Asphodel), it requires undead leadership to lead.
Demons require undead leadership to lead.
Magic fear effects
There are two types of magic fear effects: fear and frighten. 
Fear is the most severe and the most common one, it can
decrease morale by up to 10 points.  Being subject to fear
will also force the entire squad to make a morale check at
the end of the round, failure means it will break.  Units hit by
70
[[page 71]]
magic fear effects may also break individually if they fail an
easy morale check.
Breaking individually will make the unit flee while his
companions stay and continue to fight. This can only occur
due to magic fear, normally the squad will always break and
flee together.
Frighten is much less severe.  It can lower morale by up to 5
points, but does not force any automatic morale checks.
Long lasting battles and Twilight
If a battle goes on for too long the sun sets.  This will have
profound effects on the remainder of the battle.  Battle
enchantments and other spells will end and the battlefield
will be affected by Twilight, as per the spell.  Berserking ends
and berserkers cannot go berserk again.
Turn Effects
100 Twilight: All enchantments, temporary magic effects and
berserking ends, Twilight effect (-2 prec, +1 glamour magic).
150 Nightfall/Daybreak: Attacking units rout, Darkness effect
(-3 att/def/prec), or return to daylight in case of a night time
battle.
170 Defending units rout.
200 Any units left on the battlefield are killed.
Note that mindless units cannot rout and will dissolve
instead of routing.
Afflictions
Whenever a unit is struck in battle, it may suffer an
affliction. The chance of this occurring is simply the % hit
points lost in the blow.  So if a normal 10HP soldier receives
two 4HP blows, he would have a 40% chance and then
another 40% chance of getting an affliction.  What type of
affliction is suffered depends on which part of the body was
struck.
It is possible to get more than one affliction if the damage
exceeds 100%, e.g. a single blow dealing 15HP damage on a
10HP soldier would result in one affliction and then a 50%
chance for an additional one. Of course the soldier would be
dead afterwards, so the extra affliction would only matter if
he was raised from the dead somehow.
There are major afflictions and minor afflictions.  The chance
of an affliction being major is affliction chance / 1.5, or at
most 33%.  Where the hit occurs determines which kind of
afflictions may be inflicted.  The game will randomize from
all afflictions available for that level (major or minor) and
that body part.
Body Part Minor Affliction Major Affliction
Any Battle Fright
Profuse Bleeding
Head Eye Loss Dementia
Mute Feeblemindedness
Blindness
Chest Chest Wound Diseased
Never-Healing Wound
Arm Weakened Lost an arm
Leg Limp Crippled
Profuse Bleeding is the only affliction that is not permanent:
it will disappear during or after the battle.  While a unit
bleeds, it loses 5% of its hit points and gains 10 fatigue per
round of combat.  The bleeding has a 10% chance of
stopping per round.  Being underwater halves this chance
and regeneration increases it.
Limp will cause commanders to suffer a -4 map movement
penalty.  Non-commander units do not lose any map
movement points, but whenever their army marches more
than one province in a month, they will have a 25% chance of
becoming crippled.
Cripple will cause commanders to lose 75% of their map
movement speed.  Non-commander units do not lose any
map movement points, but whenever their army marches,
they will have a 35% chance of dying, or a 70% chance of
dying if marching more than one province.
Sieges
Fortresses must be reduced before they can be stormed.  To
reduce a fortress, its Defense value must be reduced to zero.
Each turn, the total reduction strength of the besiegers is
compared to the total repair strength of the defenders.
Reduction strength = unit strength squared
* Flying units are doubled
Repair strength = unit strength squared / 2
* Flying units are doubled
* Mindless units are only worth 1/8th of calculated value
* Animals (not monkeys!) are halved
* Undisciplined units are halved
71
[[page 72]]
The difference is subtracted from the fortress defense value
if the Reduction strength is greater.  If the fortress has been
damaged, and the repair strength is greater, the difference is
added back to the defense value, to the maximum of the
original value.
That's why you get the message sometimes when you're the
besieger, that "the enemy is repairing the walls faster than
we can destroy them. We need more men." This means the
repair value is higher than the reduction value, and the
besieged units are actually fixing the walls.  There is no way
for the besieger to know exactly how close a fortress is to
being breached (although you will get hints).  The defender,
however, can click on the fortification location button in
that province, and the current defense value will be
displayed.  Fortresses which are damaged but not besieged
are automatically fully repaired.
Supply during sieges
When a fortress is besieged, it provides its supply value to
the defenders, divided by the number of turns of the siege. 
So on the first turn of a siege, a fortress with 300 supply
provides 300 supply points on the first turn of the siege,
then 150, then 100, then 75, then 60.  Units which are
unsupplied suffer the starvation effect, and units which
starve for two consecutive turns can become diseased. 
Diseased units will then start to slowly get more afflictions
and eventually die.
Storming a castle
When the fortress' wall integrity value is reduced to zero it
can be stormed. Commanders besieging the fortress can
choose to 'Storm Castle' or 'Maintain Siege'.  If one or more
commander storms the castle a battle at the gates of the
fortress will take place.  Inside the walls are the defending
units and outside the walls are commanders with the 'Storm
Castle' order along with all units under their command.  If a
commander set to 'Storm Castle' is killed before the battle
at the fortress takes place, units under his command will not
participate in the battle.  The storming of the castle takes
place after any other battle in the province, so it is possible
to fight off or decimate the besieging army before they
storm the castle.
All forts have some additional units that will aid the
defender in the battle "see page  26.
Weather
The weather for any land battle is usually clear skies and
during the day. But the weather can also be rainy or snowy
at random times, unless the battle occurs in a wasteland or
in a cave.
Snowfall can only happen if the cold scale is 1 or more and
rain can only occur if the heat is 0 or greater.
Snowfall chance
Cold scale * 15%
Rainfall chance
Growth scale * 10% + 10%
Global enchantments can also affect the weather in many
ways. Assassination battles are special and often occur
indoors where there is no weather and have about 50%
chance of occurring at night. If they occur outdoors they use
the same chances for rain and snow as other battles.
Retreats
If units retreat from a battle, they will go to an adjacent
province, or perhaps a friendly castle in the same province. 
To do this, a commander must be smart.  Each commander
will undergo a check and has a 75% chance of making a
“smart” retreat.  (If a unit is in native terrain, it will get a
second chance to be smart at 50% if it fails its first check.
A smart leader will:
* Retreat into a fort in the same province if there is one
* Move to a random friendly-controlled adjacent province if no
fort is present
A not-so-smart leader will:
* Move into a random adjacent province, even if not friendly
controlled.
Troops will follow a leader under whose command they are
when they retreat, if they pass a morale check.  The squad
morale bonus counts double for this, undisciplined units
suffer a -3 penalty, and the squad morale penalty for
skirmish formation also applies.
Troops that have lost their leader or who fail a check to
follow their leader will individually check for being smart or
not (with only a 50% chance of success, although the 50%
second chance for natives still applies) and then retreat
72
[[page 73]]
accordingly.
A unit or commander that retreats to an enemy province is
killed.
Retreating when besieged
Units or commanders that retreat while defending their
castle during a siege battle will retreat and hide deeper in
the castle.  If the battle was won and they were "smart" they
will reappear in the castle, if the battle was lost they will all
be killed.  Units that were not smart will be killed instead.
Commanders are always smart and lone units have an extra
50% chance of being smart when retreating in a fight where
they are defending their castle.
Battle Summary
When battle results are reported, you can see the relative
effectiveness of the units present by seeing which units
were responsible for the most kills.  They will of course be
affected by your tactics, formations, and magic.  The
summary will show you how many units started the battle,
how many kills they scored, and how many of them were
killed by the enemy.  Killed mounted units are shown with
two numbers divided by a '+'. The first number shows killed
riders and the second number shows riders that were left
without a mount after the battle.
Magic
If the combat system is the heart of Dominions 6, the magic
system is the soul.  Everything is affected by magic in some
way.  The most powerful spells can summon awesome
monsters or change the face of the entire world.  Magic can
also be used to craft artifacts for use by heroes.  Some basic
points to remember are:
* Spells are either rituals, which are cast outside of combat, or
battle magic, which is used in tactical battles
* Magic depends both on the path and the school of magic
* The path skill of a given mage is generally fixed and doesn’t
change easily
* School is a group of spells which can be learned through
research
* Research is performed in laboratories
* Magic gems and blood slaves are needed for many spells
* These gems are produced by magic sites, including those in a
nation’s home province
* Gems and blood slaves are items which can be carried by
commanders or stored in a nation’s pool
* Laboratories also provide access to a nation’s pool of magic
gems, blood slaves and items
* The Construction school allows for the building of magical
items and artifacts
* There are also Divine spells, which are special battle magic
spells that can be cast by priests
The Paths of Magical Power
There are nine paths of magical power. The first four are the
elemental paths of Fire, Air, Water and Earth. The next four
are the sorcery paths of Astral, Nature, Death and Glamour.
Finally there is the magic path of Blood, that path is slightly
different from the other ones and is part of neither
elemental nor sorcery magic.
There are eight types of magical gems which correspond to
the one path of magic each.  There are no Blood gems –
Blood magic requires blood slaves, which can only be
obtained through blood hunting.  The symbols shown are
used to represent magic paths, and will appear in spell
descriptions as requirements for casting the spell.
Paths define the essential branches of magic.  A fire mage
can eventually learn all of the Fire spells in all the schools of
magic for which he has the requisite magical ability, once his
nation has researched them.  But he cannot learn Nature or
Earth spells, for instance, unless he first gains those path
skills.  While there are magic items that can increase a
mage’s skill level in paths he already possesses, a mage can
only acquire new paths through Empowerment (see below).
The Schools of Magical Research
There are also seven schools of magical research: 
Conjuration, Alteration, Evocation, Construction,
Enchantment, Thaumaturgy, and Blood Magic.  Note that
the school of Blood Magic is not the same as the path of
Blood Magic (although the two are related).
Schools define the areas of study needed to master the
spells within each path of magic.  For example, Conjuration
is the school of magic that deals largely with summoning
creatures from outside the world.  Any nation can research
the Conjuration school, and its mages would be able to use
any spell in that school a) up to the current research level,
and b) which required a magic path those mages possessed.
73
[[page 74]]
In order for a mage to cast a spell (a) you must have
researched the school up to the level required by the spell,
and (b) the mage must have proficiency in the magical
path(s) required by a spell, and (c) the mage must have any
magical gems or blood slaves required for the spell..
While each school has many different spells, the general
characteristics of each school are as follows.
Conjuration
Summons powers and beings from other worlds.  Many spells in
this school will bring you additional units.
Alteration
Changes the physical world.  Alteration spells can give units
increased strength, resistance to fire, and the like.  They can
also change the weather.
Evocation
Projects arcane power into the physical world.  If you want to
cast spells that are traditionally associated with magic, like
fireballs and lightning bolts, this is the school for you.  Lots of
battle magic.
Construction
The level of your construction research determines which
magic items you are allowed to craft.  Some construction spells
also allow you to make magic units.
Enchantment
Grants magical properties to men, items or the land.  You can
cover entire provinces with protective domes, or grant
long-lasting increased health to your subjects.
Thaumaturgy
Manipulates the arcane world in ways traditionally associated
with sorcery.  You might call forth the souls of victims a soldier
has killed and send them after him, or create a window in space
to observe distant lands.
Blood Magic
All spells that use blood magic have to be unlocked by
researching this school.  If your nation has any blood mages,
you will want to do some research here.
Refer to the spell charts in the Appendix for a thumbnail
description of each spell in the game.
Access to Magic Spells
Each spell has a path requirement, listed as a number of
symbols.  In order to cast a spell, a mage must meet all the
path requirements for the spell, and his nation must have
researched to the appropriate level in the school which
contains the spell in question.
Spells that are a higher level in a school don’t necessarily
require more path skill to cast:  Will o’ the Wisp is a level 5
Conjuration spell, but only requires Fire-1.  This is one
reason it is important to become familiar with which spells
exist in which school, so you can plan your research.
Note that while the schools generally categorize spells, they
don’t do so rigorously – Acashic Knowledge is a Conjuration
spell which has nothing to do with summoning.  Instead, it
searches provinces for sources of magic gems.
Combined Paths
Some spells require knowledge of multiple paths to cast
them.  A spell with multiple paths in its requirements
necessitates that the mage have the requisite level in each
path to cast the spell.  When calculating bonuses for extra
skill levels (see Fatigue below) only the first magic path
listed in the skill description is considered.  Dual path spells
and rituals use magic gems of the primary path.
Empowerment
A mage may permanently increase his skill in any path of
magic by using Empowerment.  This costs a lot of magic
gems.  For the first skill level in that magic path, the cost is
50 magic gems of that type.  For subsequent increases the
cost depends on the current skill in the magic path and is 15
x [target level].  This is the only way to gain skill in a path a
unit doesn’t have.  Magic items which increase magic skill
only work if the user’s skill in that path is at least 1.  This is
also true of battlefield spells which confer a path bonus, like
Power of the Spheres.
Indirect Magic
Indirect magic represents the general arcane knowledge
that a mage possesses about any magic path in which he has
skill.  This knowledge allows him to gain side benefits just
from being knowledgeable in that type of magic.  The more
skill a mage has in a path, the more benefit he gains. See the
Indirect Magic bonuses table to see what effects are gained
from which paths.
The more powerful Indirect magic bonuses usually have a
minimum skill level requirement of 3 or 4. At the first level
usually only increased leadership (Show as Ldr in the table)
is gained. All the abilities gained on level 1 scales depending
on level (including shorter/longer lifespan).
74
[[page 75]]
The False Damage Regen gained from glamour will heal 1
point of false damage per combat round. A unit can receive
false damage when attacked by illusions and certain
glamour spells.
Indirect magic applies to all units with any magic skill,
including pretenders, within the level activation
requirements described above.
Types of spells
Spells are divided into two basic categories:  Rituals and
Battle Magic.  The spell lists in the Appendix are also divided
in this way.
Battle Magic
Battle magic can only be cast during a tactical battle.  These
spells have battle effects like inflicting damage, granting
increased protection, reducing fatigue, or some similar
effect which only makes sense in the context of the battle
mechanics.
Battle magic can be scripted into a mage’s list of battle
actions using Set battle orders.  If a battle spell requires
gems, that mage must have those gems in his inventory
before the battle begins.
Some battle spells affect the whole battlefield and are
termed battle enchantments.  Some of these last the length
of the battle.  A battle enchantment is dispelled if its caster
dies.
All battle enchantments and temporary magic effects are
dispelled if the battle lasts until sunset (see Long Lasting
Battles and Twilight page <<-1).
Interrupts
Spells have to be prepared for a while before they can be
cast.  During this preparation time, the caster can be
interrupted if he is damaged.
The preparation time is about half of the time required to
cast the spell.  The other half of the time is spent recovering
after the spell has been cast.  The casting time for most
spells is about one combat round, but battle enchantments
and spells that cost magic gems often take longer.
The chance of being interrupted when damaged while
casting a spell is expressed as a percentage of your full hit
points caused by the damage, plus 25%.  Thus, a strike that
inflicted half of a spell caster’s full hit points in damage
would have a 75% chance of interrupting the spell being
cast.
Units with the “combat caster” ability (such as the paladin)
are half as likely to be interrupted as a normal unit. 
Mindless units are also half as likely to be interrupted as a
normal unit would be.
Some monsters are innate spell casters.  These monsters do
not require any preparation time for their spells and do not
care about different casting times.
Battle Magic mechanics
The method for resolving battle magic is very similar to that
75
Path Level 1+ Level 3+ Level 4+
Fire Ldr +10/level, Magic Ldr +10/level, Shorter life Fire Res +5 Fire Res +5
Air Magic Ldr +10/level Shock Res +5 Shock Res +5
Water Magic Ldr +10/level Cold Res +5 Cold Res +5
Earth Magic Ldr +10/level Natural Protection +3 Affliction Resistance +1
Astral Magic Ldr +20/level - Magic Resistance +1
Death Undead Ldr +50/level Rarely dies of old age Morale +10
Nature Magic Ldr +10/level, Supplies +10/level, Longer life Poison Res +5 Poison Res +5
Glamour Magic Ldr +10/level False Damage Regen True Sight
Blood Undead Ldr +10/level, Magic Ldr +10/level HP +5 HP +5
Indirect Magic bonuses
Example
 You are playing Asphodel, Carrion Woods and select a Freak 
Lord pretender.  You take advantage of the 10-point cost for 
new paths and choose Fire 2, Air 2, Water 3, Earth 4, and Blood 
1. Your pretender will gain +20 Leadership and +20 Magic 
Leadership (for Fire 2), +20 Magic Leadership (for Air 2), +5 
Cold Resistance and +30 Magic Leadership (for Water 3), +3 
Protection, +1 Affliction Resistance and +40 Magic Leadership 
(for Earth 4) and +10 Undead Leadership and +10 Magic 
Leadership for Blood 1.
[[page 76]]
for missile weapons.  Mages have a Precision attribute just
like archers do.  Spells have a Precision rating, also.  For the
purposes of calculation these two are added together.
Some spells (like Acid Bolt) are armor-piercing.  This means
Protection against them only counts for half, just like
armor-piercing missiles.  Some other spells (like Orb
Lightning) are armor-negating.  This means they completely
bypass Protection, and the target’s only defense is the die
roll.
In some cases, instead of Protection, though, some spells
check a target’s Magic Resistance.  It actually is protection. 
Protection from magic!  Magic Resistance is most often
binary in nature, it either protects the target or it does not,
with nothing in-between.  Against some spells a successful
resistance check merely means crippling injuries rather than
instant death.
Some spells (mostly Astral) require the caster to defeat the
target’s Magic Resistance before the spell can take effect.  If
a spell description states that “Magic resistance negates”
then the following check is made:
Caster’s Penetration roll: 11 + DRN + (additional skill in spell
path) / 2
Target’s MR roll: Magic Resistance + DRN + (skill in spell path) / 2
The caster wins ties.  Note that not all targets will have any
magic skill, much less skill in that spell’s path, so often the
target will simply add Magic Resistance and the DRN.
If a spell description states that “Magic resistance negates
easily” then the caster suffers a –4 modifier to his or her
penetration roll.  This is the same as "easy to resist."  "Hard
to resist" gives a +4 to penetration roll.
Some battle enchantments have effects that continuously
affect units on the battlefield and require a magic resistance
check to resist. These follow the same rules as above and
can take advantage of skillful casters and penetration
boosting magic items.
Fatigue
Just like attacking in combat, casting spells in battle costs
fatigue.  Each spell has a listed fatigue cost which a caster
incurs when casting that spell.  For each skill level in the
required path that the mage exceeds the minimum, he incurs
1 / (1 + (mage skill – minimum skill) of the listed spell fatigue.
In other words, having an extra skill level means the mage
suffers only ½ fatigue, two extra skill levels means he suffers
only 1/3 as much, three extra is ¼, and so forth.
Spell casters also incur fatigue equal to their base
Encumbrance value + 2x Encumbrance value of any armor
worn for each spell cast.  This is not subject to reduction by
skill bonuses.  It is harder to make magical gestures in heavy
armor.  Everyone knows this from armor class days.
Fatigue is very important for spell casters.  It is often the
limiting factor in combat, and higher-skill mages thus have
an advantage in that they incur less fatigue.  Spells that
reduce fatigue, like Reinvigoration or Relief, can be very
useful as well.
Rituals
Rituals are spells which have an effect on the world map, and
take an entire month (game turn) to cast.  Thus, mages which
are to cast a ritual have to be given that order as part of the
turn.  If a ritual requires gems, the mage may only use gems
from a laboratory and rituals can only be cast in provinces
with labs (assuming the national pool has enough gems of
the required type).  The gems will be withdrawn from the
national inventory automatically.
Some rituals affect the entire province that they are cast in. 
Some of these (but not all) last longer than one turn.  These
are termed local enchantments.
An example of such a spell is Dome of Air.  Once the Dome of
Air is cast, it persists in that province until dispelled.  The
spell is dispelled if the caster dies.  Most local enchantments
are also dispelled if the province they affect is conquered by
an enemy.
Some local enchantments have a limited duration and extra
gems have to be put into the enchantment during its
creation to make it last longer than a single turn. Most
enchantments with limited duration last 1 month per 1 extra
gem, but some can last as long as 3 months per 1 extra gem.
Rituals can be automated to be recast each month by the
same mage using the [Shift]+[m] shortcut when selected and
in a laboratory province.  The mage will cast the spell as long
as he has enough gems.
If you tried to cast a spell and it didn’t get cast, the most
likely problem is that you didn’t have enough gems of the
correct type.
76
[[page 77]]
Global Enchantments
Global enchantments are rituals.  These are very powerful
spells that affect the entire world of Dominions 6.  They
often cost a lot of gems and have severe effects.  Only a
certain number of such spells can be in effect at any one
time.  This can be 3, 5, 7, or 9 and can be changed in Game
Setup.You can find out which global enchantments are in
effect at any point of a game by clicking on the Global
Enchantments button in the main screen, or just hitting F6.
When casting a global enchantment, you have the option of
adding more gems to the spell than are required.  This is
because the more gems you use to cast a spell, the harder it
is to dispel it.
The maximum number of gems a mage can use to cast a
ritual is his or her path level x 100.  So a skillful mage casting
a simple global enchantment can put very many extra gems
into it if he or she wants.
Just like local enchantments, global enchantments are
dependent on their caster.  If the caster dies, the global is
dispelled.  This can be because he died of old age, or because
some clever enemy realized it was easier to assassinate him
than to try to dispel the massive global spell he had put 200
extra gems into.  Extra gems don’t protect mages against
assassination.  Immortal units will also lose their
enchantments if they die and have to wait for their bodies to
reform.
Some global enchantments are tied to a specific province,
e.g. Stellar Focus focuses the stellar energies into a single
land where the power is then collected.  If this specific
country is conquered by the enemy the global enchantment
will be dispelled.  By pressing F6 you can see the origin listed
for any global enchantments that are tied to a specific
province.
Dispelling global enchantments
Global enchantments can be dispelled in two ways.  The first
is by casting one of the different dispel rituals.  The most
commonly used one is an Enchantment-5 spell that is
Astral-3 (that’s a spell that requires a skill of 3 in the Astral
path, and is level 5 in the Enchantment school of magic) and
is called Dispel.  The other way is to cast another global
enchantment when the maximum allowable number of
global spells is already active.  The next one will replace one
of the existing ones if it is successful in overcoming it.  The
enchantment it will attempt to replace is random, so casting
a global enchantment to dispel a specific enemy global is
unlikely to select exactly that spell.  However, it’s better
than nothing.
The exception to this is if you try to cast a global
enchantment that is already in effect by another nation.  In
this case, your version will try to replace the enemy version
instead of trying to replace a random existing global.
To reiterate:  when a global enchantment is cast, the
following cases are applied in order:
* if there is already a global of the same name active, the new
global attempts to replace it according to the dispel mechanics
* if there are fewer than five (usually) active enchantments and
there is not already an instance of this spell active, the newly
cast global immediately fills one of the empty slots
* if there are already the maximum number of global spells
active, the newly cast global attempts to replace a randomly
chosen spell.  This can be a spell cast by the same nation casting
the new global.  You can accidentally dispel your own spells. 
These are unruly magicks.
Spells cast by multiple mages are cast in a random order. 
This is true for all mages, not just those of a given nation. 
What happens at any given time depends on how many
global spells are active, and which ones they are.  There may
only be two globals active at the beginning of a turn, but by
the time a mage casts his own, several other mages may
have filled up the remaining slots.
Dispel mechanics
Whenever Dispel is cast or a global tries to replace another
for whatever reason, the two spells are compared.  The total
number of extra gems and the levels of the casters above
their spells’ requirements are compared according to the
following formula:
* +1 for each extra gem (above the requirement for casting)
* +5 for each level of skill by the casting mage in the spell’s path
above the casting requirement
A DRN (two open-ended dice) is added to each side.  The
side with the higher number wins.
77
[[page 78]]
Protection vs global enchantments
Most globals that affect units can be protected against with
the use of Enchanted Domes (e.g. Dome of Solid Air).  They
protect in the same way as against local rituals with the
exception of strikeback (trap) domes. Any strikeback against
the caster will not take effect against the caster of the global
enchantment.  Thus the Dome of Flaming Death will have no
effect against global enchantments.
Many global enchantments only take effect inside their own
dominion, or has its effects increased inside its dominion. 
Protecting against these enchantments can be done by
pushing away the enemy dominion from your provinces.
Grand Communions
Some nations have perfected the communal casting of
rituals. These public rituals are usually religious in nature
and performed in the nation’s capital by ordained
mage-priests. When a mage with the Grand Communion
ability casts a global ritual, other mages with the same ability
can use the ‘Grand Communion’ order to increase the power
of the primary caster, adding their skill level to the power of
the ritual. This adds to the strength of the casting or dispel
attempt by the Grand Communion.
Example: An Arch Theurg is casting dispel. In the same
province there are three Theurgs and five Theurg Acolytes.
The primary caster invests 12 extra gems to empower the
dispel attempt. Two of the Theurgs and four of the Theurg
Acolytes forego other activities and join the casting using
the order ‘Grand Communion’. Dispel is an astral ritual so
the astral scores of all joining members are added to the
dispel attempt. The Theurgs each have an astral skill of 2 and
the Acolytes have a skill of 1. The total added value is four
for the Theurgs and four for the Acolytes bringing the total
strength of the dispel attempt up to 20.
Communions
The Astral and Blood paths of magic contain a special type of
spell called communion that allows mages to increase their
magic skill temporarily while in combat and to distribute the
fatigue from their spellcasting among other friendly mages. 
It requires two mages to cast one spell each, one casting the
master spell and the other the slave spell.
The Astral spells are called Communion Master and
Communion slave, while the Blood spells are called Sabbath
Master and Sabbath Slave, and function almost identically
except for the name and the fact that the Blood spells cost
blood slaves to cast.  For the purposes of this section they
will simply be referred to as communions.  A valid
communion cannot exist without both the spells
Communion Master and Communion Slave (or Sabbath
Master and Sabbath Slave) in effect.
Communions give the communion master(s) increased level
in all paths of magic in which they already have at least 1
skill.  They also allow the fatigue from spellcasting to be
distributed among all the communion slaves in that
communion.
Level bonus
A communion master gains n extra levels in each of his or
her known magic paths for every '2 to the power of n' slaves
in the communion.  This is true for each communion master
in the communion. E.g. a master with 2 slaves gain +1 to his
magic, a master with 4 slaves gain +2 to his magic.
Fatigue distribution
The amount of fatigue assigned to each participant in the
communion is the cost of the spell cast by the master
divided by the number of participants in the communion. 
This is further modified depending on the skill level of the
communion slaves:
slave level = master level -> no modification
slave level > master level -> fatigue / 2
slave level < master level / 2 -> fatigue * 4
slave level < master level -> fatigue * 2
Definition of participant
The communion master casting the spell in question, plus all
friendly communion slaves on the battlefield, are considered
participants in the communion for the purpose of any single
spell cast.  Note that skill levels gained from the communion
(and all other means) are included when calculating fatigue
cost of a spell.
The skill bonus gained by each master drops as soon as the
number of slaves in the communion drops below the
threshold for that bonus.  The communion ends as soon as
there are either no masters or no slaves in the communion.
Slaves cannot perform any actions on their own while part
of the communion.  However, they do benefit from any
self-buffs (single target range 0 spells) cast by the
78
[[page 79]]
communion master(s).
If the communion breaks because all the communion
masters are dead or have fled the battlefield, the
communion slaves suffer a backlash that affects all slaves by
stunning them for approximately one round, and inflicts
3d50 fatigue damage per slave.
Some magic items (e.g. Crystal Matrix, Slave Matrix, Slave's
Heart and Master's Athame) allow their bearers to
participate automatically in a communion with having to
cast the spell.  The bearers must be mages (at least 1 skill in a
magic path other than Holy).  They do not, however, have to
have Astral or Blood skill.
Communal Chants
Spellsingers of MA Man have access to the communion
spells Chorus Master and Chorus Slave.  They work similar
to regular communions, but can only be cast by Spellsingers. 
If a Chorus Slave loses consciousness, she leaves the
communion and thus will not take damage when more spells
are cast by the masters.
Different Communions
There can be one communion of each type (communion /
sabbath / chorus) active at the same time.  They have their
own separate masters, slaves and bonuses.  Thus a blood
mage sabbath master will not be able make use of astral
mages that have cast the communion slave spell.
There are also some minor differences in how the different
types of communions work.
Communion
25% longer casting time for spells
Sabbath
Only half as much fatigue on caster, but 20% extra fatigue on
slaves.
Chorus
25% longer casting time for spells. Slaves drop out when losing
consciousness.
There are also a kind of communions called Grand
Communions. These are joint attempts at casting or
dispelling global enchantments. See page 78.
Magic Gems
Gems represent the physical manifestation of the magical
essence of the paths of arcane power.  They are generated
by magic sites, and the owner of the site has these gems
added automatically to his magic resource treasury
(accessible with the [F7] key) each turn, as long as there is a
connection through friendly territory to a province with a
laboratory.
Managing your magic resources
The magic resource treasury lists all the gems your nation
currently has, as well as the rate at which it is acquiring new
ones.  To the right, the “pool” button allows you to collect all
gems from commanders stationed in a province with a
laboratory.  This is especially effective for blood hunters,
who will often need to transfer slaves from their inventory
to the national pool.
Clicking the choice at the bottom of this screen opens a new
window that allows you to transfer gems between
commanders by clicking on the number of gems they have.
The other more commonly used way to transfer gems to a
commander, is to click on his gem inventory when inspecting
his stats.
Using magic gems in combat
Mages can use magic gems in combat for two purposes:  to
temporarily raise their skill level, and to reduce fatigue.  This
represents the release of the distilled magical power of the
gems themselves.
Because it takes a skilled caster to keep things from getting
out of control, a mage can only use as many gems as his
current skill level in that path each turn.
By using a magic gem, a caster gains one skill level in that
magic path.  This can be used both to allow a mage to cast a
spell for which he would not normally have the skill, or to
reduce the fatigue of a spell, or both.  However, a mage may
never increase his skill level by more than one by using
gems, or gain skill in a path in which he or she did not already
have at least one skill level.
The player may script spells for which a mage does not have
the requisite skill and place the necessary gems in his
inventory.  He may also simply include extra gems in the
mages inventory and the computer will use them to reduce
fatigue for spells he already has the skill for, if necessary. 
However, the specific use of gems in this manner is
controlled by the computer.  Checking the box “conservative
79
[[page 80]]
gem use” will ensure that the mage uses his gems as
sparingly as possible and for scripted spells only. This can be
useful if you want to save gems for later battles. Otherwise
there is no opportunity for the player to intervene.
Some spells increase a caster’s skill in a magic path for the
duration of the combat.  The difference between these
spells, and using gems to increase magic skill, is that using
gems only lasts for that one spell in that one combat round.
Research
The research bars in the Arcane Laboratory (accessible with
the [F5] key) determine how far research has progressed in
the current level of each school of magic.  The research
speed shown below is equal to the total of the research
abilities of all commanders given orders to research in that
turn.  In order to have research as an available command,
that commander must be in a province with a friendly
laboratory, because that is where the magic books are.
Normally only commanders with magic skill can conduct
research.  The number of research points for a specific mage
is indicated next to the pile-of-magic-books symbol.  The
higher a mage’s magic skills, the more research points he or
she will have.
Magical research points are affected by Magic/Drain scales. 
Magic scales give mages extra vigor to study the tomes of
arcana all night.  Drain scales make them sleepy.
A few nations have special commander units that can
research even if they lack magic skills. Examples of this are
the philosophers of Arcoscephale and Therodoros and units
with the Divine Insights special ability such as the Monks of
Man and the Cloistered Ladies of Feminie.  Commanders
with Divine Insights contribute a few research points but
there can only be a number of them at work in a single lab
equal to the dominion strength in the province.  Any divinely
inspired researchers over that limit do not contribute
anything.  Philosophers get a research bonus from Sloth
scales, because the general lying about and thinking that is
prevalent under such scales agrees with the philosophers’
lifestyle.  Philosophers are not affected by Magic or Drain
scales, because their understanding is not magical, but more
fundamental.
Research ability: (5 + (2x magic levels of mage) +/- research
bonus/penalty.
Research ability can never go below 1
The affliction Dementia reduces the research ability by half.
Legendary Spells
Level 9 of all magic schools except construction consists of
legendary spells.  When you research this level you will get
to choose a single spell to research.  The other legendary
spells can be researched as well, but since it is done one at a
time it will be very expensive to research all the level 9 spells
of a magic school.  The legendary spell level usually consists
of spells that are very powerful or more cost effective than
the lesser ones.
Magic Items
The Construction school of magic allows you to construct
magic items which can be given to commanders to use.  This
is done by giving the order “Forge Item” to a mage in a
laboratory.  He then uses whatever magic gems are required
to create the item.
The items at research level 9 are called artifacts and are
unique, only one of each can exist in the game at a time.  The
remainder of the magic items available for forging can be
created without restriction, as long as the creating nation
has researched the appropriate level in the Construction
school, and the crafting mage has the requisite skill and
gems.
The unique artifacts will start to yearn to be forged once
their creation seems within reach.  An artifact that is
yearning for its creation can be forged at half the usual cost. 
The artifact may start yearning once at least one of these
events has occurred.
* At least one nation has researched construction level 9
* The global enchantment Forge of the Ancients has been cast
* The Throne of Creation has been claimed
* The Throne of the Artificer has been claimed
Each of these events will increase the yearning rate by 50%.
So if only one event has occurred, there will be 50% chance
per month for an artifact to start yearning.
A mage can be set to repeatedly forge the same item every
turn by selecting him and using the key combination [shift] +
80
[[page 81]]
[o].
Some items are restricted to certain nations and cannot be
forged by most nations (e.g. Black Halberd for MA Ulm). 
These items don't show up in the forge unless your nation is
able to forge them.  Restricted items that you can forge are
shown with a dark blue background in the forge.
There are also some items that are discounted for certain
nations (e.g. Blacksteel Sword for MA Ulm).  These items are
shown with a gray background in the forge.
Divine Magic
Divine spells are a special category of magic, which does not
depend on research or magic paths.  Instead, it depends on
the Holy skill of the caster, and is thus only available to
priests or other units with at least one level of Holy skill.  All
common divine spells are available to all nations at the start
of the game, and units can cast all spells for which they have
the appropriate skill level.  All divine magic consists of
battlefield spells.
Some divine spells are dependent on the magic skills of the
pretender god.  The spells Banishment and Smite have
alternative versions that replace the original spells if the
pretender is particularly skilled in one magic path.  The
highest magic skill of the pretender determines what the
Banishment and Smite replacements are.  In case of a tie, the
order below determines which spells are known.
If a pretender’s magic does not reach the threshold (lvl 4 or
higher) in any path, priests of that nation retain Banishment
and Smite spells as normal.
Example:  The priests of a pretender with 6 Air, 4 Earth, and
6 Death would know Wind of Memories and Heavenly
Strike instead of Banishment and Smite.
Alchemy
Magic gems can be converted from one type to another
81
Path Banishment Name Special Effect
Fire Ashes to Ashes Causes burning as a secondary effect
Air Wind of Memories Increased range, much increased area of effect, lower damage
Water Purifying Water Increased area of effect, slightly lower damage. Secondary effect causes additional armor-piercing
damage (will mostly harm unarmored targets).
Earth Pull from the Grave Causes Earth Grip as a secondary effect
Astral Stellar Decree Increase range and area of effect, but slightly lower damage. Secondary effect stuns undead with
their minds intact.
Death Decree of the Secondary effect causes bewilderment of undead with their minds intact.
Underworld
Nature Final Rest Reduced area of effect, easily resisted but kills targets.
Glamour Return of the Past Increased range and area of effect, slightly lower damage, Extra secondary damage that only affects
non-mindless undead
Blood none There is no Blood Magic spell of Banishment.
Divine spells replacing Banishment (and the modifications to the base spell)
Path Smite Name Special Effect
Fire Heavenly Fire 10 armor-negating fire damage is a secondary effect.
Air Heavenly Strike Range 50. 5 armor-negating shock damage
Water Watery Death Slightly shorter range. 10 armor-negating drowning damage is a secondary effect.
Earth Word of Stone Slightly shorter range. Petrification is a secondary effect.
Astral Word of Power Range 100. Secondary effect can paralyze non-mindless units.
Death Syllable of Death Slightly shorter range. Secondary effect can kill living beings or exhaust them.
Nature Word of Thorns Reduces damage. Entanglement and bleeding as secondary effect.
Glamour Word of Bewilderment Confusion as secondary effect.
Blood Claim Life Can only target living beings. Increased damage. Gives Chest Wound affliction as a secondary
effect.
Divine spells replacing Smite (and the modifications to the base spell)
[[page 82]]
through alchemy.  This can be done by any commander with
magical skill by selecting the “Alchemy” order in the Orders
list.  This brings up the Alchemy screen, which allows gems
to be converted from one type to another.
In general, alchemy can only convert gems into Astral gems,
or convert Astral gems into gems of any other type.  Either
way, the rate is 2:1 old:new gems.  It is possible to convert
gems into Astral gems first and then into a different type in a
single turn.  In that case, the rate is effectively 4:1 old:new,
so this can get very expensive.  A commander can only
perform alchemy if he or she is in a province with a friendly
laboratory.
Alchemy is also possible through magic.  There are ritual
spells which allow for this conversion.  As would be
expected, they are Earth and Fire spells of the Alteration
school. These convert gems to gold, rather than gems to
pearls.
Dominion
The pretenders of Dominions 6 aspire to godhood. 
Dominion represents this belief in god separately from
military control, as a force that extends with varying
strength from province to province.
Friendly dominion (i.e. yours) shows up on the map as a
white candle in the province. The extent of your dominion is
represented by the number of candles: the greater the
dominion, the more candles. Dominion is measured by
province: you may have high dominion in one province but
low dominion in an adjacent one. Each province has this
candle symbol, although you can only see it for those
provinces where you have some way of getting information.
Just like with military reports, you don't know who believes
what in a province unless you have someone close enough to
find out.
Be clear on one point: conquering provinces does not
expand your dominion. Your armies can march across entire
continents without changing the dominion in the provinces
they’ve conquered. Dominion is a representation of the
religious dominance of a pretender god. So while a military
banner denotes one type of control, dominion depicts
another.
This section is devoted to the concept of dominion, how it
spreads, and what that means for you, the aspiring god of
the universe. The take-home points are:
* Dominion is not related to military control.
* Your dominion is represented by white candles and its reach
can be seen by the yellow border around the provinces that
your dominion covers.
* The initial strength of your pretender's dominion (set in god
creation) is very important.
* Once that strength is set, you can increase it by building
temples.
* Your god spreads dominion wherever he goes.
* You can appoint one (and only one) prophet – he spreads
dominion, too.
* Temples spread dominion (except for certain nations who must
use blood sacrifice) and building them is important.
* Priests can raise dominion by preaching, but it is different from
the other types of spread.
* Some nations can sacrifice blood slaves to spread dominion
* The level of your dominion scales in a province is related to the
strength of your dominion
* If you are playing a disciple (team) game, your side only has one
overall dominion.
* In a disciple (team) game, disciples spread dominion like
prophets do.
* You cannot appoint a prophet in a disciple game.  The
pretenders of disciple nations are treated as prophets of the
god nation.
82
From the tomes of the lore of Dominions
Xibalba is a vast realm of dark caverns beneath the forests of Mictlan.  According to legend, the sun and the moon passed through the 
labyrinthine caverns on their daily journey to the eastern horizon.  On this journey they were guarded by the bat people, Zotz, that 
dwelled in the dark reaches of the Xibalban underworld.  Being almost blind, they would not see and not covet the splendor of the sun.  
No one has seen the sun or moon pass through Xibalba for ages, but the Zotz keep their vigil and traditions alive.  Lately, the bat people 
have lost purpose and the priestly rulers of Xibalba look to the surface world to once more bask in the splendor of the sun and moon.  
The Zotz are led by priest kings from various cities, and only the priesthood represents centralized power.  They still train the sacred Sun 
Guides that were once tasked with guarding the celestial entities through the dark world of Xibalba.  The Zotz have contact with surface 
dwellers, primarily those of Mictlan, and have adopted some of their technology and practices.  The Zotz have an affinity for blood 
hunting and black magic.  Despite being guides of the sun, their skill in solar magic is limited.  The Zotz are numerous and live in great 
swarming cave colonies.  Numbers—rather than strength—allow them to win battles.
[[page 83]]
The level of dominion in a given province is very important
and has many effects. It is also limited by certain factors.
Maximum dominion
The maximum dominion you can have in any one of your
provinces is equal to the initial dominion score of your
pretender, plus one for every (five times the number of
players on the team) temples you have, rounded down.
Example: You are playing in a four-player game with two
players per team.  Your nation has 12 temples and a
pretender with an initial dominion score of 3.  Your nation
can never have more than dominion 4 in any province.
Enemy dominion
Any dominion that is not yours is enemy dominion, and
shows up on the map as a dark candle if you press [Ctrl-3].
You can also see it in the province info box.  Only one nation
can have dominion in a single province at a given time, so if a
province is at -3 dominion to you, it is -3 to everyone except
the nation exerting +3 dominion into the province.
Increasing your dominion
Dominion doesn't correspond to military control of a
province. Instead, dominion radiates outward from its four
sources: your pretender, your capital, your temples, and
your prophet (if you have one). In a team game it also
radiates from disciples.  In a game with Thrones of
Ascension, it radiates from those as well.  This is why your
dominion is almost always high in and immediately adjacent
to your home province: every turn, the game checks for
dominion spread in your home province. The role-playing
reason for this is obvious and requires no explanation.
The chance of your dominion increasing in a province or
spreading to an adjacent province partly depends on your
god's initial dominion, which you specified when you created
your pretender.
Chance of increasing dominion
50% + (maximum dominion * 5%).
Example: In a game with no teams (just individual players), a
certain nation has eight temples and a pretender with an
initial dominion of 7.  Each turn, each temple has an 90%
chance of successfully increasing the god's dominion.  If this
nation builds two more temples (to a total of ten), the
chance of dominion increase per temple will go up to 95%.
This "temple check" is the fundamental unit of dominion
increase in the game. Considered in these terms, your
centers of dominion have the following effects:
*  Pretender: one automatic increase plus two temple checks
*  Home province: one temple check
*  Prophet: one temple check
*  Temple: one temple check
*  Disciple: one temple check
*  Throne of Ascension: see below
Thus, having a pretender in a province automatically results
in a dominion increase or spread of one, and could result in
two more. All other types have the possibility for an
increase/spread of one, according to the formula above.
Dominion over water
Dominion spread that goes to a random province is less
likely to cross water borders.  If the random province to
which the dominion is to spread is a sea province, and the
origin province is not (or vice versa, where the origin
province is a sea province and the province to receive the
spread is not), there is a 50% chance that another random
province is selected.  This random province then gets the
dominion spread instead.
Appointing a prophet
One unit can be named as the prophet of your pretender
(except in disciple games, as mentioned above).  The prophet
gains additional abilities as follows:
* If the unit is already a priest of level 3 or more, it is increased by
1.
* Otherwise, the unit becomes a level 3 priest, regardless of
whether the unit was a priest or not to begin with.
* The prophet spreads dominion like a temple.
* The prophet gets +2 to Attack, Defence & Precision skills.
* The prophet will have his HP, Str and MR influenced by
dominion, just like a pretender god.
Thrones of Ascension Provinces that contain Thrones of
Ascension only come into play if the "Thrones of Ascension"
special victory condition has been selected in game setup (it
is the default victory condition). If so, provinces with a
throne spread dominion for the owning player as though
they were a temple of that nation.  A Throne of Ascension
can cause anywhere from 1 to 7 temple checks, which varies
83
[[page 84]]
from throne to throne.  The throne must be claimed to
spread dominion.   A throne can only be claimed by a
pretender, prophet, or level 3 priest, and requires the Claim
Throne of Ascension order.
Mictlan
The nation of Mictlan in the early and late eras is another
exception to the above rules. Mictlan's home province,
prophet, and temples do not spread dominion. Its pretender
checks are half as effective as a normal pretender. The only
way for Mictlan to spread dominion (aside from the
pretender) is to conduct blood sacrifices (see below). Several
other nations have also used blood sacrifices at various
times in their history, and thus are also able to spread
dominion through blood sacrifices. However, their
pretenders, prophets, home provinces, and temples function
normally; for these nations, blood sacrifices are in addition
to normal dominion spread.  These are listed at the end of
this section.
Blood Sacrifices
To conduct a blood sacrifice, a priest of the appropriate
nation can sacrifice a number of blood slaves up to and
including his priest level. The province he occupies must
contain a temple. For each blood slave thus sacrificed, one
temple check (described below) is generated. Thus, blood
sacrifices can be a powerful method of spreading dominion.
Dominion spread
When a "temple check occurs," the following happens:
If the dominion in the province is neutral, dominion
increases to +1 automatically.
If the province contains friendly dominion, the chance for it
to increase by one is 30% minus (3% multiplied by the
current friendly dominion in that province). Thus, the higher
your dominion in a province, the less likely that a random
spread will increase it. If the dominion isn't increased in the
current province the dominion spread will go to a random
neighboring province.
If the province contains enemy dominion, there is a chance
that you will reduce it by one point.
Chance of reducing enemy dominion
50% + (maximum dominion * 5%) - (current enemy dominion in 
the province * 5%).
Thus, high enemy dominion is harder to reduce via random
spread than low enemy dominion. A series of high dominion
provinces can act as a "wall of faith" that keeps enemy
dominion out.
Each dominion spread in a province with friendly dominion
will either increase that dominion level or make a new
dominion spread in a random neighboring province instead.
So a temple check can spread dominion to provinces far
away as long as all provinces in between have friendly
dominion.
Preaching the Word of God
This is an order available to priests which enables them to
raise the dominion level in their province only. The base
chance of this occurring is 30% multiplied by the priest level.
If the priest is preaching in a province with an enemy
dominion already present, this base chance is reduced. If the
dominion in the province is friendly (positive) or neutral
(zero), the chance is equal to the base chance, with no
subtraction.
If there is a temple in that province, the priest is treated as
though he were one-half level higher than his current priest
level.  Thus, a level 2 priest will be treated as a level 2.5
priest.  This is for purposes of preaching and maximum
dominion increase (see below).
Chance of successful preaching
30% * (priest level (+½ for temple)) - (enemy dominion) * 5%
Example:  A level 1 priest is preaching in a province that has
-4 dominion (that is, an enemy has 4 dominion there).  His
chance of successfully increasing his dominion (and thus
reducing the enemy dominion from -4 to -3) is 10%.  If he
were preaching in a province with neutral or friendly
dominion, he would have a 30% chance of increasing
dominion.  If there were a friendly temple in the province,
his chance would be 25% (in the -4 dominion) and 45% (in
neutral or friendly dominion).
Preaching is thus independent of pretender dominion
strength, and completely dependent on priest level and
enemy dominion in the province being preached in.
Furthermore, preaching in a province can only raise
dominion as high as twice the level of the priest doing the
preaching. Thus, a level 2 priest can preach in a province, but
cannot raise the dominion in that province above 4. If there
is a temple in that province, the priest is treated as though
84
[[page 85]]
he were one-half level higher than his current priest level –
so a level 2 priest preaching in a province with a temple
could raise the dominion in that province to 5. This increase
is in addition to (and independent of) the spread check for
the temple, but only affects that province (it cannot spread
to an adjacent one).
The chance of reducing enemy dominion when preaching
cannot go below 5%, so it is never completely useless to
preach in a province with enemy dominion.
Inquisitor bonus
Inquisitors are more effective at preaching when in an
enemy dominion, due to assorted role-playing reasons. Their
priest level counts as double for the purposes of preaching.
Their chance of increasing dominion through preaching is
thus (60% times the priest level) minus (5% times the enemy
dominion level). Thus, in the example above, a Marignon
inquisitor of level 2 would have a 100% chance of increasing
dominion in a province with -4 dominion. In a neutral or
friendly dominion province, his chance for success would be
the same as any other level 2 priest: 60%.
If the dominion in a province is already as high or higher
than twice the level of the priest who is preaching (including
temple benefit if applicable) and you try to give a priest in
that province a "Preach" order, then a warning box will
appear, informing you that "Preaching cannot be used to
raise the dominion of this province any higher."  However,
when you close this box, the priest in question will still have
his orders set to "Preach."  This preaching will have no
effect, so you should change it to something useful.  If you
have a priest preaching in a province for several turns, and
when he started doing it he was able to increase your
dominion but now he has raised it to a point where he has no
further effect, the game will not warn you that your priest
has stopped being useful there – you need to keep track of
this yourself.
Heretics
Heretics are units that spread lies or uncomfortable truths
detrimental to faith in general.  Their presence will have a
chance of automatically lower any pretender's dominion in a
province.  Heretics are detrimental to your dominion, but if
there is enemy dominion in your lands heretics may be sent
there to reduce faith in the enemy god.  Some heretics are
stealthy and can be sent into enemy lands to spread their
subversive words.
Chance of reducing dominion
Heretic Ability * 20%
Dominion effects
It's obvious what benefit you get from militarily controlling a
province, but what does having a high dominion do?
Throughout this manual, you'll run into a number of things
that depend on the state of dominion in a given province.
For example, units fighting in a province with friendly
dominion (whatever the strength) gain +1 morale, while
fighting in enemy dominion reduces morale by 1. A
pretender (as well as a prophet) gains hit points when in
friendly dominion, and suffers a hit point penalty when in
enemy dominion (and the magnitude of the bonus or penalty
is directly related to the level of dominion). Pretenders and
prophets also gain friendly dominion bonuses and suffer
enemy dominion penalties to strength and magic resistance.
(see below)
Dominion scales
When you create your pretender, the dominion scales you
choose will spread with your dominion. This does not all
occur at once – if you have Order 3, provinces with low
friendly dominion may only gain Order 1 or 2. Over time,
they will reflect your chosen scales. Each turn a province has
your dominion in it there will be a small chance for each
scale to tip one step towards your chosen dominion. The
chance for this to happen is (5% multiplied by the dominion
level in the province) plus (10% multiplied by the difference
between the actual scale and your nation's scale).
Thus, a big difference between your scales and the scales in
a province makes the provincial scales react more quickly.
Once the difference has become small, the chance of tipping
the scales is reduced. Likewise, having a strong dominion in a
province makes the provincial scales change faster (but this
is only half as important as the difference in scales is).
Effects of Dominion Scales
The table shows the main effect of scales in a province.
The default starting research at neutral Magic/Drain scales
is 150 points researched. The default chance of receiving a
nation hero is 3% per month.
Scales with extreme values (4 or higher) can also have other
often negative effects, these are shown in the extreme
scales table.  Most negative scales (e.g. sloth or misfortune)
85
[[page 86]]
have no additional negative effect, having 5 in a negative
scale is usually bad enough.
Scales that are 4 or higher will also start to spread to
neighboring provinces, even if they are part of another
Pretender's Dominion.
Extreme dominion scales
Scale Value Effect
Order 4+ People lack creativity. Magic research -2 (or
-4 with order 5).
Productivity 4+ People get unruly. Unrest will increase with
1-5/month (or 1-15/month for productivity
5).
Heat 4+ Decrease population by 0.4% per month (or
1% with heat 5)
Cold 4+ Decrease population by 0.4% per month (or
1% with cold 5)
Death 4+ Slowly turns forests & farms into plains and
plains into wastelands
Growth 4+ Slowly turns plains into forests or farms
(order scale required for farms) and seas into
kelp forests
Growth 5 Slowly turns farms into forests
Fortune 4+ Decreases income and resources by 5% (or
15% with fortune 5)
Magic 4+ Horrors thrive here and horror marks will
start to appear. Unrest will increase with
1-5/month (1-15 for magic 5).
Heat/Cold scale variability
The heat scale of a province is affected by the current
season and terrain in addition to the dominion that is
present.
Summer makes it one step warmer and winter makes it one
step colder. Cave and outer planar provinces are not
affected by seasons however.
Deep seas are always at neutral temperature and other seas
can only get one step of cold or heat, regardless of the
dominion or enchantments present.
Extreme heat/cold scales
Extreme heat and cold kills off population, just like a high
death scale would.  However some nations are able to
reduce this effect.  E.g. the inhabitants of Abysia like
extreme heat and the inhabitants of Niefelheim like extreme
cold.
The heat/cold scale in a province with a fort for these
nations will count as one or two steps less regarding the
population killing effect of the heat/cold scale.  So for
Niefelheim that reduces the killing effect of the cold scale by
2 there would never be any population deaths in a fortified
cold province, but in a warm province the deaths would start
already at heat 2 (this would count as heat 4 for population
killing purposes).
Pretender and prophet hit points
The hit points of pretenders and prophets are affected by
the current dominion in their province. Pretenders and
prophets in friendly dominion will have increased hit points,
while in enemy dominion their hit points will be reduced.
The greater the dominion, the greater the effect. They also
get increased strength and magic resistance. For each level
86
Scale Effect
Order Increases income by 3%, Resources +2%, Recruitment +10%, Unrest reduction +1, 2% fewer random events
Turmoil Decreases income by 3%, Resources -2%, Recruitment -10%, Unrest reduction -1, 2% more random events
Productivity Increases income by 3% and resources by 15%
Sloth Decreases income by 3% and resources by 15%
Heat/Cold Each step of heat/cold level away from a race's ideal level decreases tax revenues by 5% and decreases supplies by 10%
Growth Increases population growth by 0.2% per month, Increases supplies by 10%, Increases income by 1%
Death Decreases population growth by 0.2% per month, Decreases supplies by 10%, Decreases income by 1%
Fortune 5% more random events, Chance of a random event being good increased by 10%, Chance of national hero +0.5%
Misfortune 5% more random events, Chance of a random event being good decreased by 10%, Chance of national hero -0.5%
Magic Makes spells harder to resist (-0.5 MR per scale rounded down, to all units in a province), All spellcasting generates 10%
less fatigue per scale, Gives all friendly mages +1 research points per scale, +50 points of starting research per scale
Drain Makes spells easier to resist (+0.5 MR per scale rounded down, to all units in a province), All spellcasting generates 10%
more fatigue per scale, Gives all mages -1 research points per scale, -50 points of starting research per scale.
Effects of dominion scales.
[[page 87]]
of friendly dominion in a province, a prophet and/or
pretender gains
* +1 strength
* + ½ magic resistance
* +10% hit points
For every level of enemy dominion in a province, a prophet
and/or pretender loses
* –1 strength
* –½ magic resistance point
* –10% hit points.
Hit points cannot be reduced below 10% of the total.
Dominion victory
The most powerful use of dominion is to win the game! If a
pretender has no friendly dominion on the map, he or she is
eliminated from the game. This is known as the Tinkerbell
Effect: if no one believes in you, you cease to exist.
This is more useful than it seems: for example, if you're
facing down a pretender in his last fortress with a strong
defending army, you may not need to storm the fortress at
all. Instead, besieging the fortress while reducing the enemy
dominion with your pretender can wipe him out without a
battle! And you'll never have to brave those annoying tower
archers.
Note that this does not refer to just the dominion in his
province – it refers to all of his dominion everywhere. But if
you can pin your enemy down and box him in, you can
reduce his dominion without necessarily having to fight an
apocalyptic battle.
Dominion strategy
You can now perhaps start to see how this works. In order to
spread dominion, you have to build temples, or preach, or
both. Because you can only build temples in friendly
provinces, and because your priests can't enter enemy
provinces and survive unless they have stealth capability
(like the priests of Man), you need to expand your borders
through military force in order to spread your religion. 
There are many events in history – fantasy history – that are
examples of bringing religion to the people at the point of a
sword. You almost certainly read about them in fantasy
history class.
Special Dominions
Some nations historically had special dominions which had
additional effects.  These are represented in game terms in
the following ways:
Arcoscephale (all eras)
Arcoscephale will scry on all provinces under its dominion. 
This scrying is very accurate and will also reveal enemy units
that are using the glamour ability to hide.  The information
gained from this will be available to disciple players as well.
Mictlan, Reign of Blood (early era)
Mictlan, Blood and Rain (late era)
May blood sacrifice. Also has dying dominion, meaning it will
not spread dominion from temples etc. like other nations.
The dying dominion only affects this nation regardless of
being disciple or God.
Yomi (early era)
The dominion of this nation follows some special rules.  Oni
are wild, ugly, and mischievous demons that thrive when the
land is in turmoil.  Oni will appear in all temples that are
inside Yomi’s dominion.  A high Turmoil scale will increase
the number of Oni that appear in the temples.  The strength
of the Yomi dominion itself does not affect this, as long as it
is at least 1.  The location of the temple determines what
type of Oni might appear – mountains or highlands are
required to get the most powerful types.  Cold or Warm
provinces often result in the Ao-oni or Aka-oni that thrive in
that type of climate.  Temples in temperate provinces
without mountains or highlands will only get the least
powerful Oni.  Disciples to Yomi do not get this dominion
feature.
Oni generals also attract Oni if they are in a province with
Turmoil scales or Unrest.  These Oni are only of the least
powerful type. Yomi’s dominion is not required for this.
R'lyeh, Dreamlands (late era)
Spreads insanity to all non-void beings and madmen will
emerge to help in the war.  Over time the madmen and
dreamers will partly cross over into the world of dreams and
become insubstantial beings known as void dreamers.  Both
effects will also happen in lands owned by disciple players
and the disciple players will be slightly protected from
madness just like humans in R'lyeh.  This protection is far
from adequate however and being a disciple to a R'lyeh god
will not be easy.
87
[[page 88]]
Ermor, Ashen Empire (middle era)
The dead will rise to serve Ermor and the living will die so
they can rise later on. These effects will also take place for
disciple players and the undead will obey the disciples when
they appear there. The disciple players start with full
population in their realm, but it will die quickly and undead
will rise instead. Being a disciple to Ermor will not be easy.
Ermor’s dominion also senses any unburied corpses in the
provinces it covers.
Asphodel, Carrion Woods (middle era)
The living will die and be animated by vines and roots to
serve in the war against the world. Manikins will rise from
the corpses of humans, animals, satyrs, harpies, minotaurs,
and other creatures animated by the vines and the malign
will of the God of the Vengeful Woods.  Disciples will also
get this effect and their population will soon be killed. Being
a disciple to Asphodel will not be easy.
C'tis, Miasma (middle era)
The dominion of C'tis will cause heavy rain that lasts for
months at a time and turn the land into soggy wetlands.
Mosquitoes will thrive and so will diseases.
All warm-blooded beings without the swamp survival special
ability will be affected by diseases and all enemy provinces
under this dominion will have their income severely
reduced. Provinces owned by C'tis will have their income
slightly increased instead. All provinces (except seas) will
slowly turn in swamps or drip caves as appropriate.
Disciples are affected in the same way as enemies, but their
sacred troops are immune.  Underwater provinces are not
affected, so it would be possible to have an underwater
disciple without facing a ruined economy and a dying army.
Agartha, Golem Cult (middle era)
Constructs will have increased hit points in this dominion. It
will help disciple players as well as enemies should they have
any constructs.
Abysia (all eras)
Marverni, Time of Druids (early era)
Sauromatia, Amazon Queens (early era)
Pangaea, Age of Revelry (early era)
Vanheim, Age of Vanir (early era)
Hinnom, Sons of the Fallen (early era)
Berytos, Phoenix Empire (early era)
Xibalba, Vigil of the Sun (early era)
Pyrène, Time of the Akelarre (middle era)
Vanheim, Arrival of Man (middle era)
Nidavangr, Bear, Wolf and Crow (middle era)
Marignon, Conquerors of the Sea (late era)
Midgård, Age of Men (late era)
Gath, Last of the Giants (late era)
Xibalba, Return of the Zotz (late era)
May blood sacrifice to increase dominion. This ability is not
transferred to disciple nations. Disciple nations with this
ability can still use it.  These nations do not have dying
dominion.  Note that Marverni does not have any blood
mages, so it will have a very hard time finding blood slaves.
Phaeacia, Dark Ships (middle era)
All Phaeacia’s commanders can sail (see Movement, p.
47) if both the origin and destination provinces are in
friendly dominion.  The Dark Vessels ability cannot be
transferred to other nations.  Disciples do not benefit from
the Dark Vessels.  If Phaeacia is ruled by a disciple, it can still
use its Dark Vessels in all lands under their pretender’s
dominion.
Therodos (early era)
Population will die off slowly but surely under the dominion
of Therodos. Friendly forts under this dominion will
generate ghosts that will help the Pretender God. In disciple
game this will also affect the disciples.
Mekone (early era)
The dominion of Mekone is extra efficient at suppressing
other faiths. When trying to remove the enemy dominion,
the maximum strength of Mekone is counted as one higher
than it really is.
Phlegra (middle and late era)
All provinces under the dominion of Phlegra will have their
unrest increased every turn. Higher dominion strength in
the province yields a greater increase in unrest. In a disciple
game this will only have an effect if Phlegra is the Pretender
God and then it will affect the disciples as well. Being a
disciple of Phlegra will be difficult.
Ubar (early era)
Na'Ba (mid era)
Ind (middle era)
Feminie (late era)
This dominion will hide the province name and ownership
from enemies unless they are investigating more closely. 
Scouts will need to enter the province in order to see
88
[[page 89]]
through this illusion.  Scouts in nearby provinces will see it
as an independent owned province with a false name. 
Disciples to pretenders with these dominions will also
benefit from the effect.
The Origins of Nations
The world of Dominions is very much the story of certain
nations over the ages. In Dominions 2, nations could have
various "themes" which gave them certain characteristics. In
Dominions 3, this was altered somewhat by formally
separating the nations into ages and their histories are
reflected to some extent in the progression from one age to
the next. Kristoffer Osterman, the co-designer of the
Dominions series, describes the thematic inspiration and
influences for each nation in Dominions 6.
Abysia
Abysia does not have any clear inspirational sources. Malign
devil-worshiping empires of the fantasy genre combined
with some ancient Middle Eastern concepts, perhaps. Think
of great temple ziggurats adorned with ever-burning
braziers fed with still-beating hearts in pompous
ceremonies, witnessed by a cowed populace of slaves and
smoldering Abysian rulers. Imagine magma-lit caverns filled
with screams, roars, and fleeting shadows. With blood
sacrifices being part of the official state cult it might be
considered an evil nation, but it is sprung from elemental
forces, and only under infernal influence ‒ and ignorance -
does the kingdom turn to evil. It is a tragic nation with a
proud heritage, and dilution of their magic - perhaps due to
temptation by infernal forces - leads it to embrace blood
sacrifice.
Agartha
Agartha is inspired by fantasy TTRPG's in general, and an
Earth Dawn setting of my brother's imagination, ripe with
mummified ancestors entombed in ancient cavern halls, in
particular. Old ideas of a race of pale, cave-dwelling
humanoids from my ideas of the game “Shepherds of
Creation” completed the conglomerate. Think of opulent
halls adorned with riches of the deeper earth in which reside
ancient bloated oracles with pallid skins ruling their kin with
increasing desperation; desperation because their proud
race is dying. Agartha is perhaps the most tragic of the
nations in Dominions. Surviving oracles cling to memories of
a glorious past unable to stop the unavoidable
disappearance of their ancient race. I wanted a sense of loss
to permeate the nation.
Arcoscephale
Arcoscephale is together with Pythium the first nation
conceived in the creation of Dominions. After having played
GMT's Great Battles of Alexander and S.P.Q.R. I got
fascinated by ancient warfare, and the hoplites were among
the first units to appear in Dominions. At first the two
nations were one, with a troop rooster of ancient units,
while Man and later on Ulm had troop roosters with a more
medieval touch. Soon, however, it became clear that
Pythium and Arcoscephale should be two distinct nations.
Arcoscephale is heavily influenced by ancient Greek city
states and Hellas. The Golden Age is influenced by the
mythical past and the archaic age. Later ages boast Hellenic
and Mesopotamian influences: elephants, mysteries and
Chaldean astrologers.
Asphodel
If you have walked in a forest with trees covered in ivy and
stumbled across the carcass of a dead animal, partly covered
by leaves and vines, your imagination might give life to the
vines and the roots of the nearby plants. The carrion jerks
and twitches as the roots give life to the dead animal. It
opens its jaws and lets out a silent hiss.
Asphodel is a nation of the vengeful wild. Panii and halfmen
of Pangaea have revolted against their brethren and
unleashed the powers of a dark and hungry god upon the
living world. Vines and roots turn into slithering and growing
entities strangling the living in their sleep and reanimating
their corpses as marionettes of vines and bones. These
marionettes are known as manikin. The first carrion beasts
appeared in one of my Ars Magica campaigns. There was a
manikin in the bestiary that sparked my imagination and
resulted in animal carcasses reanimated by vines. The
concept has always been something I liked, and I suspect is
has sneaked into other TTRPG campaigns of mine from time
to time.
Asphodel as a Dominions nation has a history similar to
Lemuria. The nation was once a theme in Dominions 2 that
was removed and made into a global spell available to
primarily late age Pangaea. Unfortunately, this made the
whole setting of the Carrion Woods rare, and that was a
pity. We decided to remake the old theme into a new
Pangaean splinter nation.
89
[[page 90]]
Bandar Log, Kailasa, Lanka and Patala
Bandar Log, the nation of the monkey people, is inspired by
Hindu myths, ancient India and Rudyard Kipling. The Vanara
comes from the Ramayana, an epic in which the monkey
people aid prince Rama in his struggle against the demon
king Ravana. The hierarchical division of the different
species of monkeys has parallels in the Hindu caste system. I
wanted the Bandar to use the alleged colors of the
Indo-Aryan castes: white for priests, red for nobles and
black for commoners. Markatas are exempt from the
hierarchy and society at large and might be seen as
untouchables of earlier times, although I imagine them less
vulnerable. Important to the development of the Bandar Log
were the semi-divine beings of Hindu myth. With a slight
breath of 2001: A Space Odyssey, the Yavanas and Devatas
became lords of the monkey people. When these beings left
the world the monkey people found themselves in control,
until the emergence of another divine race, the Nagas. As
Kaa hypnotized the monkeys in Kipling's Jungle Book, the
Nagas mesmerized the Bandar and Vanaras and claimed
rulership over the nation.
The latest addition to the monkey business was Lanka, the
mythical kingdom of Ravana. The nation is in many ways
similar to Kailasa, but rakshasas of various forms replace the
yakshas and yavanas, and blood magic and cannibalism is
prevalent. I confess to having a weakness for great ape
sorcerers and necromancers in semi-civilized apparel,
preferably raging and howling with gory mouths. Hindu
myth is rich and you could probably make a Dominions game
based entirely on Hindu nations, beings and gods.
Berytos
Berytos exists only in the early era. It is the Phoenix Empire
that was destroyed and reemerged in numerous coastal city
states. It is a cultural melting pot influenced by several other
nations. The nation is heavily inspired by Mediterranean
seafaring peoples and the Phoenicians in particular. The sea
peoples of Canaan and Egypt, combined with Greek
migrational hypotheses, Phoenicians and their
Carthaginian/Punic extension have been important sources.
The Canaanite/Phoenician cities of Byblos, Tyros, Sidon and
Carthage inspired the ideas of a seafaring nation and led to
the Berytian dependency on coastal forts.
The legendary founding of Carthage by Dido/Elissa and her
marriage with the high priest of Melqart combined with the
biblical concept of Canaanite Ba'al worship laid the ground
for the concept of Berytian Melqart worship. This enabled
some intertwining of Hinnomite and Berytian backstories. I
also wanted a deeper mythical backstory and found that the
Telchines, Dactyls and other Greek mythological
island-peoples combined with the Greek migration
hypothesis fit the role. I liked that the nation had an arcane
legacy free from influences from Hinnom.
When I remembered the slightly bizarre Ars Magica
supplement "South of the Sun" by Atlas Games, where there
are Carthaginian descendants dabbling in dark magic I
figured the great men and queens of of Machaka would fit a
niche as exile queens and leaders of the cult of the Melqarts.
Berytos has been one of the most fun nations to develop,
probably because it involves and expands the backstories of
several other nations and concepts. It also has several
unique mechanics designed primarily for them.
Bogarus, Vanarus, and Rus
Imagine cold winters, princes in sable-rimmed cloaks,
opulent halls where sinister old men practice vile magics or
seduce their masters' wives. Think of Rasputin. Think of
orthodox patriarchs and bizarre sect- like movements of
religious fanatics living in hiding. Imagine the monsters,
heroes and bogatyrs of Russian fairy tales.
When Bogarus was added to Dominions 3, I already had
some ideas about the predecessors. My imagination was
influenced by Kievan Rus' when the nation was given Vanir
ancestors. I wanted priests and an institutionalized religion
that brings the Russian Orthodox Church to mind and some
sectarian movements on top of that. I did some research and
I was quite happy when I found the skoptsy, the "castrated
ones," and other strange religious movements.
Vanarus was partly conceived during the development of
Dominions 3. Hints were included in the descriptions of
Bogarus, but I never got around to finishing it.
Vanarus is the predecessor of Bogarus. It is a nation of ruling
Vanir that have subjugated and intermingled themselves
with the previous rulers of the land. Kievan Rus' is one of the
sources here, but I've also used the Chuds, a people that
appears in the myths of various peoples from the eastern
Baltic seaboard. I haven't found very much on the Chuds, so
they are mostly my creation. The "Pine of Skulls,"
shape-shifting and shamanic bear cult practices fit the
nation. These features, as well as the Thunder Priests
mentioned in the descriptions of the nation appear in Rus,
90
[[page 91]]
the early version of the nation. I wanted the national troops
of the nation to reflect the change from the earlier era to the
late Bogarus. Versatile Vanarusian sages are slowly
replacing the mighty Vanir and will eventually develop into
the Starets and mages of the late era.
I never got around to finish my ideas on Rus for Dominions
4. Instead it became the second of the new nations for
Dominions 5. Baltic mythology, Latvian in particular, became
an inspirational source for the nation.
Caelum
Caelum was originally a purely fictional nation of winged
humanoids living atop the coldest mountain peaks. Later
development has gifted them with Zoroastrian traits. In a
Dominions 4 patch, the nation’s backstory was remade and
more Zoroastrian traits, summons, and spells were added to
the nation. The backstory of a primordial was between
Daevas and Yazatas along with concepts of the pollution of
the sacred flame merged with earlier ideas of Catharsis/
Anthrax. We also added some new guardian spirit
mechanics based on Zoroastrian concepts of the soul.
C'tis
C'tis is a nation of lizardmen under Egyptian and to some
extent Mesopotamian influence. Sacred priest kings,
pyramids, swamps, and flooding rivers surrounded by
deserts are all elements of these cultures. Sacred priest
kings celebrating hieros-gamos with hierodules atop temple
ziggurats, with high priests chanting and swaying in
procession under the glare of sacred serpents depicted on
murals on the great walls have to me a more Mesopotamian
feel than Egyptian. On the other hand, the Desert Tombs of
the late age is influenced by Egyptian concepts of the dead
and modern fiction on Egypt, and the lizard king might as
well be a Pharaoh as a Lugal. The connection between C'tis
and Ermor suggests that C'tis is more Egyptian than
Mesopotamian. The sauromancers' initiation rituals are
inspired by Oriental cults of the late Roman Empire, such as
that of Isis and Sarapis/Osiris.
In Dominions 4 another influence was added to C'tis: the
Sobeks of Trade & Taint. They were initially a T&T version of
C'tis and Pythium, with theurgs, legionnaires and
necromancers as possible career options. Part of the Sobek
lore and inspiration from T&T were put into middle age C'tis,
and I might expand these thoughts at a later date.
Eriu
With the development of Tir na n'Og it became evident that
I wanted another nation of Irish stock to accommodate
human heroes such as Cu Chulainn. The legacy of Tir na n'Og
was split between Eriu and Man and the remaining Sidhe
became to Eriu what the Vanir were to Vanheim in later
ages, a blessed ruling race with human subjects.
Ermor and its legacy
Ermor was initially a conglomerate of the Roman Empire and
undead nations of general fantasy stock. With time, it has
received a history that begins as something like the early
Roman republic, with military units of that age and priests
and diviners inspired by Roman religious officials. The New
Faith replaces the old state cult of the Numina, as
Christianity eventually replaced the old Roman state cult.
With the turn of the age, the mistake of the Augurs becomes
apparent, and the nation is brought into darkness.
Ermor is one of the first conceived nations in the Dominions
universe. In the first Dominions, the Ermorian backstory
influenced many of the other nations. When the eras were
introduced in Dominions 3, the undead empire ended up in
the late age and the Dominions history lost some of its
coherency. With Dominions 4, I tried to straighten things up
and once more placed the Ashen Empire of Ermor in the
middle age where its antagonists and splinter empires can
be found.
The backstories of Sceleria, Pythium, Marignon and Ulm are
all influenced by Ermor. Several other nations have
interacted with the nation or its shadow. It would be difficult
to imagine the Dominions setting without Ermor.
Hinnom, Ashdod and Gath
Hinnom, Ashdod and Gath are heavily influenced by ancient
Israelite, Canaanite and Philistine concepts. I have always
been intrigued and fascinated by biblical mythology, and had
long I wanted to include the Nephilim and biblical Genesis
myths into the game. However, I was worried that I would
not do the sources justice, so it took a while before I finally
got down to finishing the nations. The Bible, the Book of
Enoch, the Dead Sea scrolls and the Ras Shamra texts of
Ugarit and interpretations of these texts are the main
sources of the nations.
Hinnom draws more heavily on the biblical and Enochian
tradition, while the veneration of the deified dead kings of
91
[[page 92]]
Ashdod draws inspiration from the Ras Shamra and
Canaanite/Ugaritic concepts of the dead. The rephaim/r'p'm
of the Ugaritic texts are ghosts or deified dead rather than
giants, so Ashdod turned out a bit different than I first
intended, with death magic replacing blood. The shift from
blood to death gave the nation a different and interesting
mood.
I have looked a bit at Sumerian and Babylonian history when
designing Hinnom and Ashdod. Gath, on the other hand
draws more heavily from Israelite and Philistine concepts.
Early Israelite religion and history with a centralized cult at
the temple and Israelite tribes, combined with the legends of
David and Goliath of Gath are obvious sources for the late
iteration of the nation.
I wanted the nation to be an abomination, slowly becoming
more civilized throughout the ages. Hinnom is perhaps more
than any other nation in the game an evil nation. I'm not very
fond of the concept of evil, but it would be difficult to claim
that the cannibalistic giants of Hinnom are anything but.
Fomoria and Tir na n'Og
These nations are the predecessors of Man and Eriu. They
are both heavily influenced by "The Book of Invasions" and
Celtic myths and folklore. The wars and conflicts between
Fomorians, Nemedians, Fir Bolg and Tuatha were used to
create a common backstory for the nations. The Fomorian
ideas were combined with some ideas of sailing storm
giants, inhuman goat-headed giants and some concepts of
Fomorians as keepers of the watery dead that struck my
imagination.
Ind and its successors
Ind is heavily influenced by the kingdom of Prester John, a
medieval idea of a hidden christian kingdom surrounded by
heathen tribes. The idea of the hidden kingdom survived
until the seventeenth century. As more and more of the
world became known to the Europeans the kingdom was
moved to new unexplored regions. The first sources placed
the kingdom in the orient. Later on it was conceived as an
Ethiopian kingdom.
For inspiration on Ind I have used the first and most
fantastic medieval accounts of the marvelous kingdom, with
streets of gold and dining tables of emerald. I wanted to be
true to the over the top accounts of the virtue of the
kingdom and its inhabitants. In the descriptions of Ind's units
I have paraphrased several accounts of their outstanding
virtue, like everyone being a priest and every noble being a
king. I have also used accounts of cannibals and other
strange tribes subservient to Prester John. Ind is probably
the dominions nation least influenced by my own ideas. The
only addition to the nation that can't be found in the
medieval accounts of the kingdom are the dog headed
cynocephalians. These are also found in medieval accounts
and they are placed in the orient. Combined with
judaeo-christian ideas of Gog and Magog they were added
to Ind as the worst of the cannibals serving the Prester King.
Piconye, Feminie and Andramania are successors to the
magnificent kingdom of Ind. They mainly draw inspiration
from my previous ideas of Ind and the kingdom of Prester
John. I wanted the successors of Ind to split the virtues of
the magnificent kingdom and so Piconye inherits the
theocratic traditions of Ind, Feminine inherits the magic
secrets, and Andramania inherits the order and discipline of
the kingdom.
Andramania draws additional inspiration from medieval
myths on the cynocephalians. While most sources portray
them as wild brutes, there are some representations where
they appear civilized and peaceful. After some reimagining
Andramania became a nation of cynocephalians trying to
overcome their barbaric legacy.
Machaka
Machaka is a nation inspired by African kingdoms and the
Shona in particular. The king, a sacred figure, reigns, but
does not rule. He is served by vassal chiefs, and his priests,
the Eyes, Ears and Mouth, keep constant surveillance over
sub-chiefs and serve as a link between the people and the
temple. The Shilluk concept of regicide and other
unspecified ideas from African cultures have also made their
way into the nation. Modern Oriental concepts and fantasy
clichés can be found in the black sorcerers of the God
Mountain, and the spiders. I admit to some obscure
influences from the comic The Phantom as well. The
Machaka of the early age is influenced by the old TTRPG
Powers and Perils. In the fantastic campaign setting of this
game there was a nation of African stock led by great men
that were released from a great sleeping city. The notion of a
released race of superior men was attractive. Various myths,
tales, films and "African" fantasy concepts have been
mashed together and mixed with the middle age Machaka
ideas. My first idea of clans based on body parts like liver,
92
[[page 93]]
heart, hand, head and leg, did not feel right and was replaced
with animals, more fitting with the spiders of the middle age.
The nation evolved side by side with Berytos, but it took a
bit longer to finish. Creating two nations together and
intertwining their history gave them both additional life. It is
probably something I want to do with more new nations in
the future.
Man
Man is one of the first nations conceived in the Dominions
universe. The nation is a conglomerate of medieval English
and Arthurian concepts spiced with some fantasy elements
from Ars Magica and the books of Robert Jordan. The
Irish/Northumbrian monastic tradition, Anglo-Saxon
society, and Welsh longbowmen are all inspirational
sources. Later on, the nation turns towards scholarship
paired with dark tidings. The mood in the movie Sleepy
Hollow is a nice comparison.
In Dominions 4 steps has been taken to accentuate the
influence of invading barbarians reminiscent of the Angles
and Saxons. It is not difficult to see an early Ulm or a similar
nation in the Logrian backstory.
Marignon
Marignon is a late medieval nation of inquisitors and
religious fanatics. Prudent – or perhaps paranoid – priests
search for vice and heresy throughout the land, putting men
and women to the pyre with fiery justice. Imagine the
soldiers wearing fancy and colorful Renaissance clothing,
while religious and arcane officials wear red or black robes
and severe miens. In the late era the Spanish influence is
heavier than the Albigensian. Later Gothic concepts of
occultism and devil worship are incorporated along with
seafaring and missions abroad.
Marverni
Marverni is a nation inspired by Celtic Gaul. Gutuaters,
vergobrets, druid astrologers, and blood sacrifices are all
heavily influenced by the accounts of Caesar and Roman
historians. Bare-chested warriors or nobles dressed in newly
invented chain mail fight side-by-side with their chieftains to
prove their worth. Bronze horns in the image of various
animals are also images to keep in mind. Further inspiration
was probably found in Asterix, a remarkably good comic by
the way.
Mekone & Phlegra
Mekone and its successors are inspired by giants of Greek
myth. Described either as strong and proud hoplites, or in
later times, as monstrous beings with serpent legs, the idea
of a nation of giants that doesn’t follow the development of
most other giant nations, with smaller and smaller giants in
the later ages, started to take form. The serpent legged
monstrosities of the late age was at first glance the most
intriguing one, but I wanted to make the nation one era at a
time, so I started with Mekone. Some research into ancient
Athens and Sparta transformed my first ideas into a nation
heavily inspired by Sparta. Since Arcoscephale is more
influenced by Athens in the early age and Hellenic Greece in
later ages, a Spartan society would not overlap with
previous Greek influences. I also wanted to incorporate the
hubris of the giants and the Gigantomachia—the war against
the gods—into the nation, which in turn created the
backstory for the middle and late age versions of the nation.
Phlegra in the middle age is a nation that has lost most of its
proud legacy. The Gigantes of Mekone are cursed for their
hubris and are becoming physically and mentally afflicted. I
also wanted to add shepherding cyclopes to the Elder
Cyclopes of earlier times. At first, the nation felt a bit bland,
but when I started to think on the slaves and the Phlegran
society the idea of the oppressors and slave mages
appeared. The feel of the nation took a whole new turn and
the slave mage mechanics made for entirely new tactics not
available to other nations.
Mictlan
Mictlan is a nation mainly inspired by the Aztecs and their
practice of blood sacrifices. The name is that of the realm of
the dead in Aztec mythology. Tenochtitlan was built on a
swamp, and so is the Mictlan capital, but Mictlan,
particularly in the late era, is also a nation of the rainforest,
closer in resemblance to the Maya. Toads are common on
mural motives, but the Slann of White Wolf's Warhammer is
probably an equally important source of influence on the
Atlantian remaking of the Mictlan nation in the late era.
Quetzalcouatl, the Lawgiver, figures in most of the
Mesoamerican cultures as a returning savior figure. One
could not paraphrase a Mesoamerican nation without
having at least a fleeting reference to him. Mictlan is also
supposed to be a backwards nation reminding us of the
arrival of the technologically (and perhaps virally) advanced
Europeans in the Americas.
93
[[page 94]]
Na'Ba and Ubar
These two nations are inspired by the Arabian Nights as well
as preislamic arabia and the Nabataeans in particular. The
biblical narrative of Sheba has also made its way into the
nation. The city of Petra with its water reservoirs and
cultivated lands hidden in the desert has always fascinated
me. Na'Ba had to be a nation hidden by the magic of the
unseen, the jinnun. Na'Ba and Ind were developed
simultaneously and were both given the new hiding
dominion mechanics.
Na'Ba would be a nation where humans, jinnun and
crossbreeds coexisted. I wanted Na'Ba to be a mostly human
nation with access to jinn summoning rituals. Out of chance I
stumbled across Hud, prophet of the 'Ad people, who were
great of stature. Needless to say this fits all too well in the
dominions setting. The Avvites of Hinnom became refugee
'Adites, the giants of Na'Ba.
When Na'Ba was created I knew that there would be a
predecessor with more focus on the jinnun. Ubar is a jinn
nation more heavily inspired by arabian fairy tales, the city
of Brass and Iram of the Pillars.
Nazca
When Nazca was released in a patch for Dominions 4 it had
already been on the drawing board for a long time. I really
like the necrocratic concept where mummified ancestors
have a position of influence in society. A kingdom forced to
expand with every generation as previous kings and nobles
keeps their conquered lands even after death. A kingdom
slowly going bankrupt as stipends to dead ancestors keeps
piling up.
The first ideas on Nazca were just speculations how I
wanted a Caelian splinter kingdom to be, but when I got the
idea of an Inca setting for the new nation it stuck. I started to
research Andean concepts and cultural history and was
intrigued by mummy bundles, moieties, geoglyphs and
necrocratic practices. I have no clear idea of the end of the
Nazca saga, so there is room for a possible late era version in
a future iteration of Dominions.
Nidavangr
Nidavangr is a nation based on three main sources. Two of
them are derivatives of rpg settings of mine. The first setting
was a land inhabited by barbarians divided into seven clans
named after their totemic animals. At the center of this land
was a kettle hole at which unholy rites were performed to
create Nidlögade, warriors with several lives, which
together with their raven clan shamans served as the final
antagonists of the campaign. I reused and reworked the
totemic tribes for my current pathfinder campaign. In this
setting there are only three clans: wolf, bear and raven. The
shape shifting seithberenders of Nidavangr closely resemble
the clan druids of that campaign. Nidavangr is a mix of these
two settings with some added mood of the novel Midnight
Tides of the Malazan Book of the Fallen. My impressions of
the frozen waste and the undying Rhulad have trickled into
Nidavangr and the Nidbathed, but I can't say for sure how
much of the mood you would recognize. Finally Nidavangr
was set in a Dominions context with jotuns and vanir as
ancestral enemies of the clans.
Oceania, Pelagia, and Erytheia
Oceania and Pelagia are nations inspired by medieval
bestiaries abundant with creatures of the sea corresponding
to beings living on land. As most of these creatures are
half-men and fish-beasts, Oceania as a nation became quite
similar to Pangaea. The development of the Triton Kings
incorporated modern concepts and imagery of mermen, and
in Dominions 4, Pelagia was made a nation of its own, less
Pangaean in style. Knights armed in mother-of-pearl armor,
Triton Kings on hippocampoii-drawn sea- shell chariots, and
golden tridents are all part of the Pelagia setting.
With the release of the Dominions 4 UW-patch the
backstory of Pelagia was developed. It became intermingled
with Berytos and my first ideas on later developments for
the nation emerged. I prefer if nations are primarily
culturally defined, and secondarily racially defined. Pelagia
always felt more like a race thing and less like a kingdom
with its own cultural setting. The changes in the patch was a
step in this direction, although I find the new nation Erytheia
more interesting.
Erytheia is the late era development of Pelagia. It is a nation
heavily inspired by Ptolemaic Egypt. Like Ptolemaic Egypt, it
is a nation of foreign conquerors adopting local traditions
forming an isolated kingdom desperate to keep its royal
blood lines and avoid foreign influence. I wanted the
94
[[page 95]]
Ptolemaic practices of royal sibling marriages represented
in the game and this led to some new mechanics developed
for Erytheia. I also wanted Erytheia to be more of a
contender for the closed realm, Pelagia's name for dry land.
The idea of a merman kingdom of both worlds started to
take form when I worked on the Dominions 4 UW-patch.
The pairing with Ptolemaic concepts fit well and Erytheia
became a nation quite different in feel from previous
underwater nations.
Pangaea
Pangaea is a nation of wild half-men of Greek myth, as they
could have developed if exposed to a vast and
technologically superior humanity: Iron or skin. Adapt or die.
As in most cultures exposed to so-called civilization, some
inhabitants cling to traditions, or current perceptions of
them; while others adapt to the circumstances, with loss or
gain in influence. The loss of ancient magic and traditions
over the ages is quite apparent in this nation, but in the late
era the centaurs have found new paths of magic, giving hope
to the nation.
Phaeacia
Phaeacia is an island nation inspired by its namesake in the
Odyssey, the enchanted isle ruled by Alcinous. Imagine
palaces of gleaming bronze, with golden gates guarded by
dogs of gold and silver. In enchanted gardens filled with
fantastic trees, fountains and marble statues, wise men
entertain their queen with song and poetry. In a city of
marble craftsmen and weavers of unequaled skill make
trade goods and silk garments famed throughout the world.
When I worked on Mekone and Phlegra, ideas popped up
that were too interesting to be ignored. In one of my Ars
Magica TTRPG campaigns the players were lost at sea
during a storm and arrived at an enchanted island colony of
surviving Phoenician Ba’al worshipers, blessed with
longevity. The Ulysses tale combined with my TTRPG
campaign and previous ideas on Berytos resulted in the new
island nation. Phaeacia is one of the nations where my
imagination runs wild, probably due to the fact that it is
influenced by several sources, including my own TTRPG
setting. Finally, the nation needed some new mechanics,
sites and events to become what I wanted. The dark vessels
and the island start, make the nation play differently than
other nations and I hope that they are reasonably balanced
in MP games.
Pyrène
EA Pyrène is a nation inspired by basque mythology and an
Ars Magica rpg campaign of mine, set in the Pyrenees. The
caves of Ariège and prehistoric cave paintings combined
with the Bekryde myth were great inspirational sources for
the setting. The giants of basque myth were also
incorporated and one of my players played a character of
giant descent. In dominions more of the basque myths have
been reworked and incorporated, although I would like to
add some more stuff.
MA Pyrène is inspired by more modern concepts of the
Akelarre, the witches sabbath, and the art of Goya. The
Bekrydes still lingers on, but their legacy is more apparent in
the physique of the population than in the culture of Pyrène.
The nation also draws inspiration from the song of Roland
and the wars between christians and muslims in medieval
Spain.
Pythium
Pythium is based on the eastern Roman Empire and
Byzantium. Its history and military bears a legacy of Ermor,
as did Byzantium from Rome. The Theurgs and their
ceremonial magic are influenced by the lavish liturgy of the
Orthodox Church. The Cathedral of the Spheres is filled
with chanting, the fragrance of incense, and processions of
Theurgs robed in gold and silver. Ritual magic is a public and
religious affair. The serpent-and-emerald part of the nation
is more free-form fantasy fiction, and comes from the name I
think.
In the late era the nation is influenced by the mystery cults
and religious worshipers of subjugated lands, much as the
late Roman empire became a melting pot of imported
religious beliefs and faiths. The mystery cults of Isis/Sarapis,
Mithra, Dionysos and Euleusis gave Pythium in the late era a
new and interesting flavor. The serpent priests are more of a
fictional addition, and probably came about as a result of the
sacred serpent cataphracts and hydras. Since the mystery
cults were inspired by the cult of Isis, a serpent priest with a
C'tissian legacy felt fitting. I'm personally quite fond of late
era Pythium, since my thesis was about the Roman
Isis/Sarapis cult.
Ragha
Ragha was added in the Caelum patch for Dominions 4. I had
played with ideas on a dual Caelian/Abysian nation earlier
95
[[page 96]]
on, but it wasn't until I started to remake Caelum that those
ideas bore fruit. Of the Caelian nations it is probably the one
most heavily influenced by history and myth. Since the
nation was developed with Zoroastrianism in mind the
mage-priests of the nation, dasturs and athravans, became
an integral part of the nation and not something that was
added ad hoc. The heat/cold preferences of the nation made
it a bit difficult to evaluate and balance, but I'm very fond of
the concept thematically. The fact that the nation is based
on centuries of Persian history and two different dominions
nations, gives it more traits than most nations.
R'lyeh and Atlantis
These two nations are heavily influenced by H.P. Lovecraft.
While R'lyeh is closer to the Cthulhu mythos with
Starspawns and strange beings from the stellar void,
Atlantis is a nation of deep ones native to the depths. The
early era is more heavily Lovecraftian, while the middle era
is more influenced by fantasy concepts and ideas. Atlantis is
another nation devastated at the end of the second era. Late
Atlantis incorporates Inuit concepts apart from the earlier
Lovecraftian elements.
R'lyeh is the other nation heavily influenced by the fiction of
H.P. Lovecraft. While Atlantis represents the more tellurian
aspects of the Cthulhu mythos, R'lyeh represents the
stranger aspects and beings of the Lovecraftian universe.
Starspawns, strange openings and beings of the Void are
mixed with a bit of fantasy role-playing game clichés. The
nation progresses from a D&D-ish nation of Aboleths to an
insane nation of dreaming madmen, mutated lunatics and
mind-defying void beasts. F’tagn.
Sauromatia
Sauromatia is a nation based on Herodotus' accounts of the
Scythian peoples in The Histories. Here Scythians, Amazons,
Sarmatians, and Androphags are described with their
strange traditions and unsavory practices, and the book is a
splendid source for any modder seeking inspiration for a
new nation. Grave goods, archaeological findings and
Osprey military books have given the nation further life.
Finally, Witch Kings and elements of the Pythian
predecession (serpents, swamps and hydras) were added to
the Androphags to make the nation more sinister and
Dominion-esque.
Sceleria and Lemuria
Sceleria is the daughter of Ermor and sister of Pythium. In
Dominions 3, the nation was the middle era Ermor, but with
the cleanup of the history, that which was Ermor in the
middle era had to be rewritten. Sceleria became a splinter
empire that together with Pythium broke free from Ermor
before the cataclysm. Sceleria, as Pythium, is of course
influenced by the Romans. Fantasy concepts of sinister
nations with undead workers and soldiers walking
side-by-side with the living population are not uncommon.
Lemuria is a reprise of the Dominions 2 Ermor theme "Soul
Gates." With Dominions 3, the Soul Gate and the Carrion
Wood mechanics were remade into global spells. This
change practically removed them from the game. We
wanted them back and with the rewriting of the history the
new nation of Lemuria followed in the wake of Sceleria.
Lemuria is an undead nation of ghosts and immaterial
undead instead of skeletons and zombies. Think of grey
lands of ash and dust. Imagine spectral hordes marching
forth under banners swaying in a wind you cannot feel.
Stand still and you might hear the clamor of ancient
weaponry when the ghost legions pass you by. At the
horizon a great darkness is spreading as shadows pour forth
from the Soul Gate.
Therodos
Therodos is based on Greek legends and ideas of a
golden-age kingdom swallowed by the waves as punishment
by the gods. Since I made Berytos I wanted to elaborate on
the Telkhines. Previous concepts of the Berytian Telkhine
ancestry and new ideas of a spectral nation unaware of its
undead precondition were merged and Therodos started to
take form. Additional ideas of craftsmen daimones, such as
Daktyls and associated Kouretes and Korybantes found a
place in the backstory of the nation.
T'ien Ch'i
T'ien Ch'i is obviously influenced by China. I couldn't even
resist the name Spring and Autumn, from the period of the
same name in Chinese history. Chinese history is rich and
there is plenty to draw upon. Daoism and its five elements,
inner alchemy, and quest for longevity inspired the Masters
of the Way as did the T'ien Shih—celestial master—of
institutional Daoism convert into the Celestial Master of
T'ien Ch'i. Heroes come in plenty in the Chinese tales and
96
[[page 97]]
the Seven Immortals are all interesting figures. Sun Wukong
and his friends are perhaps even more so. There is plenty of
stuff to expand on should I or a merry modder find the time.
Finally, T'ien Ch'i has been inspired by movies from Hong
Kong, China, and Korea.
Ulm
Ulm is a nation that goes through major changes with the
eras. In early times it is a barbarian nation. Think Conan! Or
at least, think of the first five minutes of Conan, the
Barbarian, when Conan's family is slaughtered by Thulsa
Doom and the young boy is brought to slavery. Think of
fur-dressed shamans and warrior smiths speaking of the
Enigma of Steel. Then think of the German tribes described
by Caesar in The Gallic Wars, the Roman disaster of the
Teutoburger Forest, and the pagan temple at Irminsul. Ulm
in the early era is an Ulm before the arrival of civilization.
Ulm of the later eras is inspired by, amongst others,
Teutonic Knights and German Landsknechts. Late Ulm is an
intended shift of style towards central and eastern Europe,
southern Germany/Bavaria, and Transylvania. One of the
classic ingredients of gothic novels is tainted bloodlines.
Another feature common amongst the traditional,
Anglo-Saxon and Protestant, gothic novel is that it takes
place in some part of Catholic Europe, so making a
Goethicized fantasy “Bavarian” Ulm is a natural step, I think.
Ur and Uruk
Ur came to be as a result of Trade & Taint, an earlier
unfinished Illwinter project. I made the first Enkidus and
Sobeks for that game. Shame, bone readers and reavers
were some of the possible career paths for the Enkidu race.
In Dominions 5 the Enkidus were given a nation influenced
by Mesopotamian history. They had it in Trade & Taint as
well, but in Dominions 4 it became more pronounced. After
Dominions 4 was released we took up work on Trade &
Taint again and ideas on the enkidus were developed. Last
summer I found myself reading more on Sumerian cities and
culture. The transfer of religious and temporal importance
from Eridu to other cities during Sumerian times is an
interesting process. Thus Uruk became the first new nation
added in Dominions 5.
Hinnom is to some extent Sumerian, but I wanted the
backstory of Ur to have a more Sumerian feel. I like the
concept of a single center of civilization surrounded by lands
inhabited by wild men roaming around tending goats and
hunting game.
This led to the development of the mechanic where some of
a nations units are recruitable, not in their home or
fortresses, but in their surrounding lands. It gave the nation
a troop rooster that accentuated the backstory of the
nation. And of course they had to have sirrushes, the
wingless dragons of the Ishtar Gate.
The nations' shamans and bone readers are also influenced
by some shamanistic concepts, Caananite ideas on
veneration of the dead and probably a dose of some old
TTRPGs.
Ur develops into Uruk in the middle age and gets access to
armaments of iron. The Ensi priest king of Eridu will see his
power diminished as civilization spreads and Ensis of other
cities claim temporal and religious authority. In this new era
the Entu of the Moon, inspired by En Hedu'anna, the
daughter of Sargon the Great, becomes the unifying power
of the kingdom and Uruk turns into a theocracy.
Vanheim, Helheim, Niefelheim, Muspelheim,
Jotunheim, Midgård, and Utgård
These are all nations sprung from old Norse myth. The
Poetic Edda and some later tales, combined with general
conceptions of Iron Age Scandinavia, are the main sources.
Vanir, Aesir and Giants are ancient antagonists in these
myths. The Aesir, being perceived as gods, have been made
pretenders in Dominions. Not that Vanir weren't, but they
seem less so than the Aesir in most instances. As with most
nations of supernatural origin, it seems fitting that their
magic fades with each passing age as humans become more
and more numerous.
Niefelheim, Muspelheim, Jotunheim, and Utgård are part of
the history of a single nation through the ages. Vanheim,
Helheim and Midgård also share a common ancestry and
development. In the middle era Helheim merges with
Vanheim and disappears as an independent nation. Only the
valkyries remain as reminders of the legacy of Helheim.
Muspelheim was added in Dominions 6. I've wanted to make
the nation for a long time, but haven't had the tools or
inspiration to finish the nation. I wanted to convey the idea
presented in the creation of the world in norse myth, with
the flames and heat from Muspelheim meeting the frost and
ice of Niefelheim. In Dominions 6 new mechanics were
added that allows a nation to prefer cold lands, while the
97
[[page 98]]
capital is exempt from the effects of severe heat.  Thus I
could make Muspelheim a land of ash and flames ruled by
fire giants, surrounded by icy lands inhabited by jotun giants.
Xibalba
Xibalba is a nation inspired by Mayan mythological concepts
as expressed in the Mayan texts Popol Vuh and Chilam
Balam. The Popol Vuh describes the creation of the world
and other mythological concepts. It also tells of the hero
twins Hunahpú and Xbalanqué and their travels to Xibalba,
the Mayan underworld, through which the sun travels
during the night. Ever since high school, when I first came
across the TTRPG Chill, and found a creature named
Camazotz, I've been intrigued by bat-gods and
Mesoamerican myth. The bat-god was actually the first god
made for Mictlan, when that nation appeared in Dominions
2. When I started to work on Xibalba it was clear from the
beginning that it would be a Mayan nation of bat-people.
In the middle era Xibalba is flooded and toad people take
over. Toads are important in Mesoamerican iconography
and I wanted them to have a role in a Mayan nation. I also
liked the idea of a nation that goes through heavy changes
during the eras. Mesoamerican flood myths and concepts of
the Bacab were used in conjunction with a slightly rewritten
Atlantian backstory to fit the concept of a flooded
underworld inhabited by Atlantian refugees.
Xibalba was also one of the first nations to get a national
global spell based on its national backstory. The concept had
been used when we remade the themes and carrion woods
into a national spell, but we were never fond of how that
worked out. The Xibalban Theft of the Sun along with the
Agarthan Unleash Imprisoned Ones reintroduced the
national global enchantments.
Yomi, Shinuyama and Jomon
These three nations are heavily influenced by Japanese
history, folklore, and myth. The first of the three nations is
an uncivilized nation of demonic brutes enslaving and eating
humans and other races. They are replaced by Bakemonos,
ghostly goblins of Japanese folklore of similar outlook, and
finally the humans take control. The beings of Shinuyama
are quite heavily influenced by the old pen-and-paper
TTRPG Bushido, although some other sources on
mythological beings such as Tengus and Kitsune have been
used. Modern myth, such as the western idea of the ninja,
also has a place in the late nation of Jomon.
In Dominions 5, I elaborated more on Yomi to make the
nation a bit more of a swarm-nation with demons entering
this world in increasing numbers through demon gates
raised by misled human priests.
Ys
Ys is based on Breton myths of the sunken city of Ys/Kêr-Is
and morgen water spirits. To expand the nation I added
some Irish/Welsh ideas of the merrow as well as the
Marverni tribe of Kernou to give the nation an opportunity
to establish coastal forts with their own unique units. I
initially intended to merge the Ysian backstory with
Marignon and add a Melusine morgen hero for that nation,
but never got around to finish my ideas. It is not unlikely that
Melusine and some other Ys/Marignon connections appear
in upcoming Dominions 6 patches.
98
[[page 99]]
Magic Items
These are the magic items available for forging in the game,
using a mage with the appropriate magic skill and requisite
number of magic gems. Some magic items are not listed here
which cannot be forged, only found by chance.
Path requirements determine the forging cost of magic items,
see table at the top for the costs in gems (or blood slaves in
the case of blood magic). If multiple paths are needed, gems of
each type are used.
Example: The Sword of Many Colors (Earth 4, Astral 3)
requires 20 Earth gems and 15 Astral gems to forge.
You will not be able to forge a unique artifact (research level
9 item) that is already in existence.
Artifacts that are yearning can be forged at half the normal cost.
One handed weapons: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Fire Sword F1 1 1 10 1
Ice Sword W1 1 3 6 1
Ice Lance W1 1 2 3 3 Lance
Blacksteel Sword E1 2 2 9 1
Enchanted Sword S1 1 2 8 1
Enchanted Spear S1 2 2 7 3
Hardwood Club N1 1 1 5 1
99
key meaning
Path Magic path skill required to forge (also
determines cost)
F / A / W / E Fire / Air / Water / Earth
S / D / N / G aStral / Death / Nature / Glamour
B / H Blood / Holy
Rng Range
Att / Def Attack / Defence
Dmg Damage
Len Length
Enc Encumbrance
Prot Protection
AP / AN Armor-Piercing / Armor-Negating
Und / Mind Undead / Mindless
Spi / Illu / Eth Spirit Form / Illusion / Ethereal
SpSi / TrSi / DV Spirit Sight / True Sight / Darkvision
Ldr Leadership
RP Research Points
Str Strength
Prec Precision
MR Magic Resistance
+Path Magic skill boost
Aff Res Affliction Resistance
FS / MS / SS / WS Forest/Mountain/Swamp/Waste Survival
CR / FR / PR / SR Cold/Fire/Poison/Shock Resistance
Level Cost in gems
1 5
2 10
3 15
4 20
5 30
6 40
7 55
8 70
Cost to forge magic items
[[page 100]]
One handed weapons: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Sceptre of Authority F1 1 0 0 1 Leadership +50, spell: Burn
Burning Blade F1 3 1 12 1 On hit: Fire (16 AP)
Mace of Eruption F1 1 0 8 1 On dmg: Flame Eruption
Thunder Whip A1 0 0 2 4 SR +5, Max 1 dmg, On strike: Chain Shock
Ice Mist Scimitar W1A1 2 3 8 1 CR +10
Coral Blade W1 2 2 9 1 HP +8, On dmg: Draw Blood
Stinger E1 2 1 7 3 AP
Sword of Sharpness E1 2 2 10 1 AP
Axe of Sharpness E1 2 0 11 1 AP
Main Gauche of Parrying E1 1 6 4 0
Smasher E2 2 0 16 1 On hit: Shatter
Star of Heroes E2 4 -2 12 1 On dmg: Break Armor
Dwarven Hammer E3 0 -1 8 1 Forge Bonus 2
Eyecatcher E1W1 -2 0 -5 0 AN, On dmg: Eyeloss
Faithful E1G1 2 4 7 1 Luck, Aff Res 1
Rod of the Leper King D1 1 0 0 1 Diseased, Undead Command 100
Duskdagger D1S1 3 1 3 0 AN, On dmg: Draw Blood
Bane Blade D1 1 2 7 1 On dmg: Decay
Hunter's Knife N1 2 1 4 0 AP
Thorn Spear N1 2 2 5 3 On dmg: Strong Poison
Vine Whip N2 3 0 0 4 Max 1 dmg, On hit: Entanglement
Knife of the Damned N1S1 4 1 4 0 AP, Cursed, Curses wielder, On dmg: Curse
Jade Knife N1B1 1 0 1 0 Sacrifice Bonus 2, Nation restricted
Pixie Spear G1 3 1 5 3 On dmg: Pixie Fatigue
Toy Sword G1 2 2 1 1 Glamour Manipulator, Max 1 dmg, On hit: Imagined Wound
Shillelagh G1N1 1 1 5 1 Luck, Retinue 1 , cost: 3 glamour gems + 2 nature gems, Nation
restricted
Sprite x1 HP 2, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 3, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 22, FS, SS, Fly, Glamour,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 65, TrSi, Wpn: Fist, Elf Shot
Blade of Grass G1N1 2 2 7 1 AP, On dmg: Draw Blood
God-Slayer Spear E1 2 0 6 3 On strike: Bane of Heresy, Nation restricted
Anemone Mace W1 4 1 -2 1 On hit: Anemone Poison, Nation restricted
Mercybrand F2 1 1 7 1 Fear +5, Inquisitor, Patrol 10, On dmg: Flames of Mercy, Nation
restricted
Sword of the Five Elements F1W1 3 4 8 1 Reinvig 2, cost: 2 fire gems + 2 water gems, Nation restricted
Spear of the Morrigan D1A1 3 2 6 3 Partial life drain, On dmg: Decay, Nation restricted
One handed weapons: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Wand of Wild Fire F3 1 0 0 1 spell: Fireball
Lightning Spear A1 2 2 5 3 SR +5, On hit: Shock (8 AN)
Rune Smasher W2F2 2 1 7 1 Penetration +2
Frost Brand W1 1 2 8 1 CR +5, On strike: Frozen Flames
Sword of Swiftness W2 2 4 10 1 2 attacks
Elf Bane E1S1 3 0 12 1 AP, On dmg: Slay Magic
Starfire Staff S2 1 0 0 1 Astral Spell Range +25%, spell: Star Fires
100
[[page 101]]
Herald Lance S2 1 1 6 3 Inspirational +1, spell: Solar Rays
Serpent Kryss N1 2 1 4 0 AP, PR +5, On dmg: Death Poison
Snake Bladder Stick N1 0 1 64 2 AN, Str not added
Thistle Mace N2 -1 -1 3 1 Nature Magic +1, On dmg: Strong Poison
Whip of Command N1 3 0 1 4 Inspirational -2, Leadership +150, TM +3, Max 1 dmg
Rat Tail N1 2 0 0 4 Animal Awe +4, TM +1, Max 1 dmg, On hit: Greater Fear
Summer Sword N2E1 1 2 11 1 Supply 150, spell: Tangle Vines
Unseen Sword G1 2 2 8 1 Patience +2
Flesh Eater B1 4 -1 14 1 Berserker +3, On dmg: Chest Wound
Heart Finder Sword B2 4 2 10 1 On dmg: Heart Finding
Star of Darkness D1 2 1 10 1 On dmg: Cause Fatigue
Cockerel Scepter F2 2 1 6 1 spell: Holy Pyre, On hit: Cockerel Blindness, Nation restricted
Vajra S2 2 0 5 0 SR +10, On hit: Shock (8 AN), spell: Lightning Bolt, Nation
restricted
One handed weapons: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Fire Brand F1E1 3 0 8 1 AP, Morale +2, FR +5, On strike: Small Area Fire
Dragon Sceptre F2 -2 0 -2 0 Dragon mastery 1, spell: Flame Bolt
Rod of the Phoenix F4 -2 0 -2 0 spell: Incinerate
Evening Star F1D1 6 -2 10 1 On strike: Fire and Weakness
Demon Whip F1B1 4 0 2 4 Max 1 dmg, On strike: Bonds of Fire
Star of Thraldom G1 6 -2 10 1 On strike: False Fetters
Shadow Brand D2E1 4 1 12 1 AP, On strike: Leeching Darkness
Axe of Hate N1 4 0 13 1 PR -15, On dmg: Fatigue and Disease
Singing Sword G2 2 3 9 1 casts: Entrancement
Blood Thorn B3 2 0 4 0 Blood Magic +1, Partial life drain
Master's Athame B3S1 0 0 5 0 Partial life drain
One handed weapons: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
O'al Kan's Sceptre F3 0 0 0 1 Fire Spell Range +50%, CR +10, Leadership +100, spell: Flare, On strike:
Small Area Fatigue
Unquenched Sword F5 4 1 22 1 AP, Berserker +1, casts: Heat from Hell, On strike: Large Area Fire
Ember F2W2 5 4 15 1 FR +10, CR +10, On strike: Small Area Frost and Fire
Winter Bringer W3 0 0 2 0 CR +15, Retinue 1d6 Winter Wolves, spell: Falling Frost
Dawn Fang E2S1 3 3 10 2 MR +1, Aff Res 1, Awe +1, Double dmg vs undead and demons
The Summit E4 12 6 28 1 AP
Mage Bane E6 5 6 10 1 MR +5, Tainted, On dmg: Unconsciousness
The Tartarian Chains E4F2 3 -2 5 2 2 attacks, On hit: Enslavement
Twin Spear S1B1 2 2 10 3 AP, Luck, Leadership +100, spell: Call Lesser Horror
Twin Spear S1D1 2 2 10 3 AP, Luck, Leadership +100
The Sword of Aurgelmer G6 2 2 13 1 Luck, Curses wielder, Morale +4, Affects mount too, casts: Dreamwild
Legion, On dmg: Curse
Rod of Death D3 3 0 10 1 AN, Undead Command 100, Summoner 2d6 Longdeads, Str not added,
spell: Control the Dead
The Sickle whose Crop is Pain D6 4 4 5 1 AP, On dmg: Decay
Sceptre of Dark Regency D6 1 0 0 1 AP, Death Magic +2, Death Spell Range +50%, Fast Aging +3, On dmg:
Major Life Drain
101
[[page 102]]
Sword of Injustice D4 3 2 6 1 Priest +1, casts: Prot of the Sepulchre, On strike: Small Area Bane Fire
Woundflame D4 4 5 8 1 Diseased, On dmg: Plague
Picus's Axe of Rulership D2E1 5 -2 12 1 On hit: Armloss
The Sharpest Tooth N2S1 2 0 3 0 AP, PR +25, Patience +2, On dmg: The Deadliest Poison
Sceptre of Corruption B4 2 0 1 1 Cursed, Leadership +100, Tainted, spell: Bane Fire, On hit: Decay
Procas's Axe of Rulership B2E1 3 -2 14 1 On hit: Armloss
Dimensional Rod S3 1 1 0 1 Quickness, Cursed, Astral Magic +1, Astral Spell Range +25%, Tainted,
Causes insanity, On hit: Dimensional Shift
Two handed weapons: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Enchanted Pike S1 3 1 9 5
Two handed weapons: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Holy Scourge F1 5 -2 6 2 2 attacks
Staff of Flame Focus F1 2 4 3 3 Fire Spell Range +25%
Greatsword of Sharpness E1 4 4 15 2 AP
Halberd of Might E1 2 3 16 3 Strength +4
Hammer of the Mountains E1 -1 -3 25 3 On strike: Small Area Stun
Lightning Rod E1 2 4 3 3 Corpse construction Bonus 4, SR +15
Bane Blade D1 2 3 10 2 On dmg: Decay
Doom Glaive D1S1 2 2 16 3 On strike: Small Area Curse and Decay
Thorn Staff N1 3 5 5 3 On dmg: Strong Poison
Gloves of the Gladiator N2 2 1 3 0 MR +1, Strength +3, 4 attacks
Shaman's Staff N1S1 2 4 3 3 Nature Spell Range +25%, Penetration +1, Reinvig 1
Black Halberd E1 1 2 12 3 On strike: Bane of Heresy, Nation restricted
Two handed weapons: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Flambeau F3 4 2 13 2 AP, FR +5, spell: Holy Pyre, On strike: Holy Fire
Ice Pebble Staff W3 2 4 3 3 CR +5, spell: Winter's Chill
Shock Trident A1 3 4 10 3 SR +5, On strike: Chain Shock
Staff of Corrosion W2F1 2 4 3 3 spell: Acid Bolt
Midget Masher E1 3 1 20 2 Double dmg vs smaller
Implementor Axe E1D1 2 0 10 2 AP, Fear +10, Pillage +25
Wraith Sword D2 2 3 11 2 Partial life drain
Skull Staff D2 2 4 3 3 Death Magic +1
Skull Standard N2D1 -2 -3 1 4 Mun, Fear +5, spell: Panic
Twilight Glaive G2 4 4 15 3 On strike: Twilight Fatigue
Moon Blade S1 4 5 13 2
102
[[page 103]]
Two handed weapons: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Staff of Elemental Mastery F4W4 2 4 3 3 Elemental +1, Elemental Spell Range +25%, FR +5, CR +5
Carmine Cleaver F2E1 4 1 18 2 AP, FR +5, On dmg: Burn Flesh
Staff of Storms A5 2 4 3 3 Corpse construction Bonus 8, On hit: Shock (12 AN), spell: Lightning
Bolt, casts: Storm
Staff of Elemental Mastery A4E4 2 4 3 3 Stoneskin, Elemental +1, Elemental Spell Range +25%, SR +5
Demon Bane W1 5 2 15 2 HP +5, FR +15
Wave Breaker W3 3 3 10 3 Water Breathing, 3 attacks, casts: Friendly Currents
Rime Hammer W2A1 5 1 21 3 CR +10
Gate Cleaver E3 -1 -1 29 2 AN, Siege Strength +100
Standard of the Damned D4 -2 -3 1 4 Mun, Fear +5, spell: Drain Life
Banner of the Northern Star S4 -2 -3 1 4 Mun, MR -2, casts: Light of the Northern Star
Treelord's Staff N5 2 4 3 3 Nature Magic +2, Nature Spell Range +25%, Awaken Vine Men
Bonus 2, FS
Hell Sword B2F2 5 1 14 2 FR +10, Berserker +3, Partial life drain
Jellyberd S1F1 2 3 0 3 Protective Force 20, On strike: Jellyberd Poison, Nation restricted
Two handed weapons: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Att Def Dmg Len Special properties
Sword of Justice F3S3 3 4 15 2 Priest +1, FR +15, spell: Prison of Fire, On strike: Holy Fire
Tempest A5 5 6 15 2 SR +15, spell: Thunder Strike, casts: Storm, On strike: Chain Lightning
Trident from Beyond W3S2 2 3 13 3 Water Magic +1, On dmg: Soul Slay
The Stone Sword E5 4 7 10 2 MR +4, On strike: Area Petrification
Hammer of the Forge Lord E5F3 1 0 20 2 Forge Bonus 4, On strike: Small Area Fire
The Sword of Many Colors G4F2 3 5 17 2 Glamour Magic +1, Temp Glamour Gems 2, Awe +3, Glamour
Manipulator, On strike: Killing Light
The Oath Rod of Kurgi S3B3 3 5 5 3 Astral Magic +1, Blood Magic +1, Spell Range +25%, spell: Horror Mark,
On dmg: Feeblemind
The Flailing Hands D2 4 -1 10 2 Death Magic +1, Penetration +1, MR +1, 2 attacks, On hit: Fear and Cold
Sun Slayer D6 5 6 13 2 Death Magic +1, Fear +5, spell: Drain Life, casts: Darkness, On strike:
Area Death
Harvest Blade B3N1 10 -5 16 0 Cursed, Morale +2, Fear +5, Berserker +2, Instant Berserk, On strike:
Leg Chop
Infernal Sword B1F1 4 4 14 2 AP, FR +5, On dmg: Banish to Inferno
The Staff from the Sun S5F1 3 3 4 3 Fire Magic +1, Fire Spell Range +50%, Temp Fire Gems 1, FR +15, On
strike: Area Fire
Missile weapons: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Range Prec Dmg Special properties
Sling of Accuracy A1 40 5 12 Uses str/2
103
[[page 104]]
Missile weapons: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Range Prec Dmg Special properties
Just Man's Cross F1 45 4 12 AP, Uses str/3
Trueshot Longbow A1 50 30 12 Uses str/2
The Pebble Pouch E1 Str/3 0 8 Size req 6, Strength req 20
Piercer E1A1 35 10 12 AN, Str not added
Black Bow of Botulf D1 45 5 12 Uses str/2, On dmg: Feeblemind
Mirage Bola G1 Str 2 0 On hit: False Fetters
Missile weapons: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Range Prec Dmg Special properties
Fire Bola F1 Str 2 2 On hit: Fire Bonds
Thunder Bow A2 40 3 0 AN, On strike: Small Area Shock
Golden Arbalest A1E1 55 10 15 AP, 2 attacks, Uses str/3
Vision's Foe A1D1 50 10 13 AN, Uses str/3, On hit: Eyeloss
Vine Bow N1 35 0 5 Uses str/2, On hit: Entanglement
Sling of Crystal Shards G1E1 30 -1 6 AP, MindIm, Glamour Manipulator, 6 attacks, Max 1 dmg, Uses str/2, On
dmg: Shard Illusion
Carrion Bow N1D1 35 0 5 Uses str/2, On hit: Entanglement, cost: 3 nature gems + 2 death gems,
Nation restricted
Missile weapons: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Range Prec Dmg Special properties
Bow of War A1 40 0 8 Mun, 13 attacks, Uses str/2
Ethereal Crossbow S1 45 5 999 AN, MR, MindIm
Ivory Bow D3A1 50 2 12 AP, Undead Command 15, 3 attacks, Uses str/2, On dmg: Decay
Banefire Crossbow D1 45 2 10 AP, Curses wielder, Uses str/3, On strike: Area Decay
Missile weapons: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Range Prec Dmg Special properties
Bow of the Titans A3S2 100 100 22 AP, Air Spell Range +25%, Strength req 18, spell: Seeking Arrow
Shields: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Prot Def Parry Enc Special properties
Blacksteel Tower Shield E1 23 -2 9 2 Cannot be used by mounted units
Blacksteel Kite Shield E1 29 -2 8 2
Enchanted Shield S1 17 -1 7 1
Raw Hide Shield N1 13 0 4 0
Shields: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Prot Def Parry Enc Special properties
Weightless Tower Shield A2 16 0 8 0 Cannot be used by mounted units
Weightless Kite Shield A2 21 0 7 0
Lead Shield E2 23 -3 6 3 MR +4
Shield of Valor E1A1 21 -1 8 1 Air Shield
Lucky Coin G2 19 0 4 0 Luck, Affects mount too
Shield of Meteoritic Iron S3E2 30 -4 7 4 Cannot be used by mounted units, casts: Power of the
Spheres
Eye Shield N2 16 0 5 0 Eye Vengeance 1 v MR
Ice Aegis W2 21 -1 8 1 CR +5, Ice Armor 1
104
[[page 105]]
Shields: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Prot Def Parry Enc Special properties
Golden Hoplon F2 23 -1 9 1 FR +15
Charcoal Shield E2F1 26 -1 5 1 FR +10
Mirror of Long Lost Battles G2 22 -2 8 2 Glamour Manipulator, Cannot be used by mounted units
Shield of the Accursed S2B1 21 -1 7 1 Defence Skill +3, Horror Mark Attacker 5 vs MR
Vine Shield N2 13 0 5 0
Totem Shield N1S1 13 0 4 0 Curses attacker
Shields: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Prot Def Parry Enc Special properties
Shield of Gleaming Gold F1G1 23 -1 9 1 Awe +1
Scutata Volturnus A1E1 21 -2 9 2 SR +5, Cannot be used by mounted units, casts: Shocking
Grasp
Lantern Shield D2F1 23 -1 6 1 Fear +5, Magic Command 1, Retinue 3 Corpse Candles
Corpse Candle x3 HP 4, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 4, Att 19, Def 19, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, SS, Float, Eth, Spi, Magic,
Mind, NNEat, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Bane Burst
Shields: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Prot Def Parry Enc Special properties
Immaculate Shield F3S2 30 -1 9 1 Blessed, Priest +1, Awe +2
Barrier E4 40 -2 11 2 Strength +4, FR +15, SR +15, Cannot be used by mounted
units
The Aegis E5 25 -1 7 1 Fear +5, Petrify Attacker 1 v MR
Shield of the Dawn E2S1 35 -2 9 2 MR +1, Aff Res 1, FR +5, Awe +1
Armors: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Blacksteel Plate E1 17 -1 2 HP +4
Blacksteel Full Plate E2 24 -3 4 HP +4
Enchanted Ring Mail Armor S1 13 -1 1 HP +4
Berserker Pelt N1 9 0 0 HP +4, Berserker +1, Instant Berserk
Armors: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Fire Plate F1 16 -1 2 HP +4, Morale +2, FR +5
Robe of Missile Protection A1 3 0 0 Air Shield, HP +2
Lightweight Scale Mail A1 12 0 1 HP +4
Mirror Armor G1A1 13 -1 1 HP +4, MR +3
Shambler Skin Armor W1 9 0 1 HP +4, Water Breathing, Air Breathing
Dire Wolf Pelt N1 8 0 1 HP +4, Attack Skill +1, Defence Skill +1, CR +5
Kithaironic Lion Pelt N1E1 6 -1 1 HP +4, Invulnerability 18, cost: 3 nature gems + 2 earth gems
Ranger's Cloak N1 5 0 0 HP +4, Stealth Boost +30
Gossamer Gown G1 3 0 0 HP +2, Awe +1
Purple Silk Garments S1W1 8 0 0 HP +2, MR +1, Defence Skill +2, Twist Fate, cost: 3 astral pearls + 2 water
gems, Nation restricted
Armor of the Five Elements E1A1 17 -1 2 HP +4, MR +1, FR +5, SR +5, CR +5, cost: 2 earth gems + 2 air gems, Nation
restricted
105
[[page 106]]
Armors: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Red Dragon Scale Mail F2 16 -1 1 HP +6, Morale +4, FR +15
Copper Plate A1 13 -1 2 HP +6, SR +10, casts: Charge Body
Silver Hauberk A2E1 17 -1 1 Air Shield, HP +6
Brightmail Haubergeon A1E1 13 0 0 HP +6, Reinvig 1
Brightmail Hauberk A2E1 17 0 0 HP +8, Reinvig 2
Armor of Meteoritic Iron E1S1 23 -3 5 HP +6, MR +3
Elemental Armor E2F1 20 -3 4 HP +6, FR +10, SR +10, CR +10
Blue Dragon Scale Mail W2 16 -1 1 HP +6, Morale +4, CR +15
Robe of the Sea W3 3 0 0 Water Magic +1, HP +2, Water Breathing, Air Breathing
Shroud of the Battle Saint S1 9 0 0 Blessed, Cursed, HP +2
Robe of Shadows S2 3 0 0 Eth, HP +2, Stealth Boost +20
Shademail Haubergeon G2E1 13 0 0 HP +6, Stealth 20
Green Dragon Scale Mail N2 16 -1 1 HP +6, Morale +4, PR +15
Chain Mail of Displacement G2 19 -2 2 HP +6
Armor of Souls B5 16 -1 1 Blood Magic +1, HP +10, MR +5, Invulnerability 15
Armor of Twisting Thorns B3N2 13 -1 5 Cursed, Nature Magic +1, Blood Magic +1, PR +5, Poison Barbs 10 AN
dmg
Salamander Silk Garments F1 8 0 0 HP +2, MR +1, FR +15, Awe +1, Nation restricted
White Dragon Scale Mail A2 16 -1 1 HP +6, Morale +4, SR +15
Black Dragon Scale Mail E2 16 -1 1 HP +6, Morale +4, Acid Res +15
Armors: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Armor of Knights E1 20 -2 3 HP +6
Marble Armor E2 16 -1 3 Stoneskin, HP +8
Stymphalian Wings E4 18 -4 3 Flying, Trample, HP +10, Attack Skill -4, Fear +5, Cannot be used by
mounted units
Weightless Scale Mail A1 12 0 0 HP +4
Rainbow Armor G1W1 11 -1 1 HP +8, MR +2, Reinvig 3
Robe of the Magi A5B5 3 0 0 Magic +1, HP +2, Reinvig 5, Tainted
Robe of Invulnerability D2 4 0 0 HP +8, Invulnerability 25
Rime Hauberk W2 16 -2 2 HP +8, CR +10, Ice Armor 1, Chill 8
Jade Armor W2E1 16 -1 4 Quickness, HP +8
Bone Armor D4 7 -2 2 Soul Vortex, HP +8, CR +5, Invulnerability 15
Hydra Skin Armor N2 12 -1 1 HP +8, Regen 10%, PR +15
Cloak of Invisibility G3 3 0 0 HP +2, Stealth 20, Unseen
Bloodstone Armor B3E2 20 -3 6 HP +16, Strength +2, Regen 10%, Heavy
Silver Silk Garments S1A1 8 0 0 HP +2, MR +2, Reinvig 2, Twist Fate, cost: 3 astral pearls + 2 air gems,
Nation restricted
106
[[page 107]]
Armors: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Aseftik's Armor E4 30 -3 4 Cursed, HP +15, MR +4, Morale +8
Monolith Armor E4 34 -8 10 HP +20, Morale +10, Regen 10%, Cannot be used by mounted units, Heavy
Armor of the Dawn E2S1 20 -1 2 HP +10, MR +1, Aff Res 2, FR +15, Awe +1
Robe of Calius the Druid N3 4 0 0 HP +2, MR +3, FR +10, SR +10, CR +10, Stealth Boost +20, Water Breathing
Fenris' Pelt N4 16 0 1 HP +10, CR +10, Berserker +4, Instant Berserk, MS, Swiftness 50, casts: Howl
Armor of Virtue S3 16 -1 1 Blessed, HP +10, Awe +4, Returning on Damage
Flesh Ward B4 0 0 0 Cursed, Blood Magic +1, HP +16, Strength +4, Reinvig 2, Damage Reversal 2 vs
MR, Cannot be used by inanimate beings, Tainted
Pebble Skin Suit B4E1 0 0 0 Stoneskin, Cursed, Earth Magic +1, HP +10, Strength +2, Regen 10%, Cannot be
used by inanimate beings
Helmets: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Blacksteel Helmet E1 24 0 0
Enchanted Helmet S1 15 0 0
Oppressors Headband E3 6 0 0 Communion Master, MR -2, Nation restricted
Helmets: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Dragon Helmet F1 22 0 0 Morale +4, FR +5, DV 50
Crown of Lead E1 6 0 0 MR +1
Ivy Crown N1 0 0 0 Awaken Vine Men Bonus 1, FS
Horned Helmet N1 22 0 0 weapon: Gore (att -1, def -1, dmg 0)
Ice Helmet W1 18 0 0 CR +5
Crown of the Shah F1A1 9 0 0 Cursed, Priest +1, Inspirational +1, Leadership +150, Magic Command 50,
Undead Command 50, Can only be used by a certain type of units, casts:
Fanaticism, Nation restricted
Black Laurel D2 0 0 0 Lictor Summoning Bonus 3, Nation restricted
Helmets: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Flame Helmet F4 5 0 0 Fire Magic +1, Reinvig -3
Helmet of Heroes F1E1 19 0 0 Inspirational +2
Dragon Crown W1E1 9 0 0 Dragon mastery 1
Winged Helmet A4 22 0 0 Air Magic +1
Crown of Command S2 9 0 0 Inspirational +1, Leadership +100, Magic Command 50, Bodyguard Limit +5
units
Spirit Mask D2N1 10 -1 0 MR +1, SpSi, casts: Frighten
Mistletoe Garland G1 0 0 0 Luck, PR +5
Horror Helmet D2 22 0 0 Fear +5
Crown of Bones D2 9 0 0 Inspirational -1, Undead Command 150
Gossamer Veil G3 0 0 0 Glamour Magic +1, Stealth 20
Crown of the Whispering G1D1 9 0 0 Undreaming 4, Nightmare Aura 24, Glamour Manipulator, Cannot be used
Dead by mindless
Headdress of the Bull N1 8 0 0 Strength +2, Retinue 1 , Nation restricted
Buffalo x1 HP 43, Prot 5, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 18, Trample, Berserker +2,
Wpn: Hoof, Gore
107
[[page 108]]
Huaca Headdress F2 9 0 0 Inspirational +1, Leadership +25, Magic Command 25, Undead Command
25, Nation restricted
Helmets: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Scorpion Crown F3D2 9 0 0 PR +5, Magic Command 5, Battle Summoner (reduced by cold) 1-4
Random Scorpions
Spirit Helmet A3 20 0 0 casts: Lightning Bolt
Iron Face E3 23 0 0 Ironskin
Crown of the Titans E2F1 9 0 0 Size +1, Inspirational +1, Leadership +100
Starshine Skullcap S2 8 0 0 Astral Magic +1, MR +2
Crown of the Magi S4W2 9 0 0 Fast Casting 30, Magic Command 25
Skullface D5 18 -1 0 Death Magic +1, Undead Command 25, SpSi, spell: Horde of Skeletons
Wraith Crown D5 9 0 0 Eth, Undead Command 100, SpSi, Retinue 5d6 Longdeads
Mask of Face-borrowing G2 0 0 0 Spy, Stealth 30
Headband of Woven Dreams G2 6 0 0 Undreaming 4, Sleep Aura 4, Cannot be used by mindless
Helmets: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Crown of Overmight F5E3 21 -3 2 Cursed, Strength +5, Inspirational +1, Leadership +150, Protective Force 30,
Bodyguard Limit +5 units, casts: Charm
Amon Hotep F5S4 9 0 0 Cursed, MR +5, FR +15, Awe +5, Invulnerability 25, spell: Mummification
Helmet of Perfection W3A3 25 0 0 HP +5, Awe +5, Inspirational +3, Eye Vengeance 1 v MR
Helmet of the Dawn E2S1 23 0 0 MR +2, Aff Res 1, Awe +1
Crown of the Ivy King N2 0 0 0 Barkskin, Awaken Vine Men Bonus 3, Regen 5%, PR +15, Animal Awe +5, FS,
spell: Awaken Vine Men
The Crown of Despair D2 9 0 0 Cursed, Death Spell Range +25%, Death Gems 1/month, Divine Reanimation
Bonus 2, Ritual Reanimation Bonus 4, Fear +10, DV 100
Crown of the Fire King F4 9 0 0 Cursed, Reinvig -1, FR +25, Magic Command 50, Heat 3, Retinue 2 Fire
Elementals
Fire Elemental x2 HP 53, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 16, Eth, Spi, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Heat pow 1, FR +50, CR -5, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 6, Fire Shield 12 AP dmg, Wpn:
Flame Strike
Crown of the Frost King W4 9 0 0 Cursed, CR +25, Magic Command 50, Chill 25, Retinue 2 Ice Elementals
Ice Elemental x2 HP 65, Prot 11, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 17, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 16, Inanim, Magic, Mind,
Trample, Amph, NNEat, Aff Res 4, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Ice Prot 2, Chill 5, Wpn: Ice Fist
The First Crown S4F4 9 0 0 Cursed, Master Ritualist 2, Awe +5, Tainted
The Crown of Pure Blood B4D2 9 0 0 Cursed, Blood Slaves 5/month, Fear +10
Crown of the Elements F4W4 9 0 0 Elemental +1, Elemental Gems 1/month, HP +5, FR +10, SR +10, CR +10, Battle
Summoner 1-3 Random Small Elemental
The Jade Mask D6N3 20 0 0 Death Magic +2, MR +3, Regen 5%, PR +15, Fear +10, DV 50, spell: Rigor Mortis,
Nation restricted
Boots: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Special properties
Boots of Long Strides N1 Map Move +6, Swiftness 100
Fish Scale Boots W1 Swimming
Silent Boots G1 Stealth Boost +20
108
[[page 109]]
Boots: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Special properties
Chi Shoes A1 weapon: Chi Kick (att 0, def 0, dmg 0)
Boots of the Behemoth E1 Trample, Heavy
Boots of Giant Strength E1 Strength +5
Birch Boots N1 CR +10, MS, Winter Move
Ranger's Boots N1 Reinvig 2, Stealth Boost +20, FS
Boots: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Special properties
Brimstone Boots F1E1 Strength +4, FR +15, WS
Winged Shoes A2 Flying, Fly Speed 20
Earth Boots E2 Earth Magic +1
Boots of Stone E2 Stoneskin, MS
Boots of the Messenger N1 Reinvig 3, Map Move +9
Pixie Shoes G1N1 Luck, Defence Skill +2, Map Move +6
Boots: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Special properties
Boots of Quickness W2 Quickness, Map Move +12
Boots of Grasping Earth E2
Boots of Youth B2 Reinvig 3, Slows Down Aging 90%
Boots of the Spider A1 Scale Walls, MS, FS, SS, Winter Move, Unhindered
Boots of Seven Mile Strides N2 Map Move +18
Boots: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Special properties
Boots of Antaeus E4N1 Earth Magic +1, Reinvig 5, Regen 10%, Map Move +6
Sandals of the Crane S2 casts: Blink
Boots of the Planes S5 Eth, Tainted, spell: Teleport
The Boots of Calius the Druid N4 Reinvig 10, FS, Map Move +9
Wyrmskin Boots W2E2 Cursed, HP +10, MR +2, Regen 20%, PR +15, SS, Water Breathing
Misc: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Special properties
Ring of Fire F1 FR +15
Ring of Tamed Lightning A1 SR +15
Ring of Frost W1 CR +15
Bear Claw Talisman E1N1 Morale +2, Strength +5, Beauty -1
Rabbit Foot Charm S1 Twist Fate
Skull Talisman D1 Undead Command 5, Retinue 1 Longdead
Longdead x1 HP 5, Prot 8, MR 9, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Inanim, Und, Mind,
PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spear
Snake Ring N1 PR +30, spell: Poison Touch
Slave Collar B1 Cursed, Morale +20, Patience +1
Pendant of Courage F1 Morale +5
109
[[page 110]]
Misc: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Special properties
Burning Pearl F1 Attack Skill +4, FR +5, Patience -1
Fire in a Jar F1 Temp Fire Gems 1, CR +5
Ring of Warning A1 Warning 60% chance, Patrol 10
Ring of Levitation A1 Affects mount too
Owl Quill A1 Research +6
Eye of Aiming A1 Cursed, Precision +8
Amulet of Missile Protection A2 Air Shield, Affects mount too
Amulet of Breathing A2 Water Breathing, Affects mount too
Flying Ointment A2N1 Flying, Fly Speed 20, Storm Immunity, Nation restricted
Ring of Water Breathing W1 Water Breathing, Affects mount too
Flask of Holy Water W1 Bless (sacred units only)
Clam of Pearls W1N1 Temp Astral Gems 2
Bracers of Protection E1 Defence Skill +2, Prot +2
Lodestone Amulet E1 MR +2
Wound Fend Amulet E1S1 Aff Res 2
Stone Birds E1A1
Cat's Eye Amulet E1 DV 50, Stealth Boost +20
Clockwork Bird E1 Warning 60% chance
Champion's Skull D1 Gain Experience 3/month
Effigy of War D1N1 Perceived Army Size +50 units
Handful of Acorns N1 Magic Command 1, Retinue 3 Vine Men
Vine Man x3 HP 17, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Magic, Mind, PAmph,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, Wpn: Fist, Fist
Barkskin Amulet N1 Barkskin, Affects mount too
Cat Charm N2 Defence Skill +4, Beauty +1
Enormous Cauldron of Broth N3 Supply 150, Heavy
Pendant of Luck G1 Luck, Affects mount too
Amulet of Clarity G1 Disbelieve 2, TrSi
Tablecloth of Marvelous G3 False Supplies 400
Feasts
Gossamer Cloth G2N1 Veil Army 25 units
Ring of the Warrior B1 Morale +2, Attack Skill +5
Imp Familiar B1 Cursed, Research +3, No Forge Bonus, Undead Command 1, Retinue 1 , Tainted
Shadow Imp x1 HP 7, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 16, Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60,
Dark Power 2, Wpn: Pitchfork
Soul Contract B3F1 Cursed, No Forge Bonus, Undead Command 10, Summoner 1 , Cannot be used by mindless,
Tainted, cost: 75 blood slaves + 5 fire gems
Witches' Ointment B2A1 Flying, Fly Speed 20, Storm Immunity, Nation restricted
Enchanted Salt E1 AN, weapon: Throw Salt (att 0, def 0, dmg 1), Str not added
110
[[page 111]]
Misc: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Special properties
Medallion of Vengeance F1 Explosion on Death 20 AP dmg (AoE 10)
Pills of Water Breathing A2 Gift of Water Breathing 75 size points
Dancing Trident A1
Storm Spool A1 Corpse construction Bonus 2, SR +10, Overcharged 1 AN capped dmg
Bag of Winds A2 Temp Air Gems 1, Magic Command 1, Retinue 1
Air Elemental x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 7, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Storm Power 2, SR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Lightning Swarm
Wall Shaker A3 Siege Strength +50, spell: Panic
Flying Carpet A3 Army Flight 30 size pnts, Fly Speed 20
Horn of Storms A5 Air Magic +1, spell: Storm Wind
Dancing Shield A1E1 Protective Force 20
Mirror of Trapped Images G1 Glamour Manipulator, spell: Warrior Illusion
Enchanted Mirror G2 Perceived Army Size +75 units, Glamour Manipulator
Cauldron of the Elven Halls G3 Veil Army 75 units, Heavy
Water Lens W1 Water Spell Range +25%, Temp Water Gems 1
Amulet of the Fish W1A1 Air Breathing
Manual of Water Breathing N3W1 Gift of Water Breathing 150 size points
Girdle of Might E1 Strength +3, Reinvig 3
Sky Metal Matrix E1S1 Communion Master
Slave Matrix E1S1 Communion Slave
Amulet of Antimagic S1 MR +4
Spell Focus S1 Penetration +1
Eye of the Void S1 Cursed, Penetration +2, MR -2, SpSi, Tainted
Coin of Meteoritic Iron S2E2 Astral Magic +1, MR +1
Amulet of the Dead D1 Divine Reanimation Bonus 2, Ritual Reanimation Bonus 2, Undead Command 5, spell: Animate
Skeleton
Skull Mentor D2 Research +14
Bane Venom Charm D2 Diseased, Reaper 5
Spider Amulet N1 PR +15, Scale Walls
Horn of Valor N1 Inspirational +1
Acorn Necklace N1E1 Luck, SR +15, Affects mount too
Endless Bag of Wine N1 Supply 75
Amulet of Giants N1 Size +1 (max 4), Affects mount too
Lychantropos' Amulet N2 Cursed, Strength +4, Regen 10%, DV 50, Berserker +1, Instant Berserk
Ring of Regeneration N2 Regen 10%
Amulet of Resilience N2 Reinvig 5
Homunculus N2 Cursed, Research +11, Magic Command 1, Retinue 1
Homunculus x1 HP 3, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 3, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 6, MM 16, FS, Magic, Mind, PAmph,
NNEat, Stealth 60, PiR, Wpn: Tiny Slap, Elf Shot
Cornucopia N3 Temp Nature Gems 2, Supply 75
Miraculous Cure All Elixir N5 Disease Healing 1
Astral Serpent N1S1 PR +5
Pendant of Beauty G1 Beauty +2
Dream Spool G1 Temp Glamour Gems 1, Retinue 2 Warrior Illusions
Warrior Illusion x2 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Illu, Inanim, Mind,
Amph, NNEat, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Weapon
111
[[page 112]]
Dreamstone G1 Research +9, MR -2, Cannot be used by non-sleepers, Can only be used by glamour mages
Stone Sphere G2E1 Tainted, spell: Astral Window
Neverending Keg of Mead G1W1 Supply 50, False Supplies 150
Sanguine Dowsing Rod B1 Blood Searcher 1
Brazen Vessel B5 Blood Magic +1
The Heart of Life B3 Cursed, No Forge Bonus, Reinvig 10, PR +5, Slows Down Aging 50%, Cannot be used by
inanimate beings
Lifelong Protection B2 Cursed, No Forge Bonus, Undead Command 5, Battle Summoner 1-2 , Cannot be used by
mindless, Tainted, cost: 40 blood slaves
Blood Stone B3E2 Earth Magic +1, Temp Earth Gems 1
Slave's Heart B3S1 Cursed, Morale +10, Cannot be used by inanimate beings
Windcatcher Sail A2 Nation restricted
Companion Bracelet A2 Luck, Cursed, Research +4, casts: Summon Qarin, Nation restricted
Carrion Seed N1D1 Cursed, Diseased, Nation restricted
Soul Scales B1G1 Dream Enhancer +2
Misc: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Special properties
Abominable Arms B4N2 Cursed, Attack Skill -3, Defence Skill -3, Extra Arms 2, Cannot be used by inanimate beings,
Tainted
Lightless Lantern F1 Research +12, DV 100, Tainted
Skull of Fire F1D1 Fire Magic +1, CR -5
Barrel of Air A4 Gift of Water Breathing 450 size points, Heavy
Mirror of False Impressions G4 Leadership -50, False Army, Glamour Manipulator
Water Bracelet W1 Water Magic +1
Bottle of Living Water W2 Magic Command 1, Retinue 1
Water Elemental x1 HP 81, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 18, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Spi, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, FR +10, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush, Crush, Crush, Crush
Sea King's Goblet W3 Gift of Water Breathing 300 size points
Chains of Reconstruction E1 Reinvig 1, Reconstruction 5%
The Copper Arm E3F1 Cursed, Extra Arms 1
Crystal Heart E1G1 Luck, Cursed, Extra Life, Cannot be used by inanimate beings
Stone Idol E2S2 Heretic 3, Heavy
Eye Pendant E3D3 Disease Healing 1, Warning 80% chance, Patrol 10
Arcane Lens S3 Spell Range +25%
Ring of Returning S3 Returning on Damage
Ring of Wizardry S7 Magic +1, Penetration +1
Ring of Sorcery S6 Sorcery +1, Penetration +1
Elixir of Life N2F2 Slows Down Aging 80%, Extra Life
Pocket Ship N3A2 Army Sail 600 size pnts, Ship Size 7
Moonvine Bracelet N3S1 Nature Magic +1, Retinue 1
Vine Man x1 HP 17, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Magic, Mind, PAmph,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, Wpn: Fist, Fist
Eye of Innocence G2 Cursed, Stealth Boost +40
Mirage Crystal G3E2 Glamour Magic +1, Veil Army 50 units
Ring of Invisibility G5 Stealth 20, Invisibility
Ring of the False Prophet G4F2 Cursed, Priest +1, Morale +5
The Black Heart B2 Cursed, No Forge Bonus, Morale +2, Assassin, Cannot be used by inanimate beings
112
[[page 113]]
Blood Pendant B2 Blood Spell Range +25%, Strength +2, DV 50
The Heart of Quickness B2F1 Quickness, Cursed, Reinvig 2, CR +5, PR -5, Fast Aging +2, Map Move +12, Cannot be used by
inanimate beings
Jinn Bottle A1E1 Magic Command 1, Retinue 1 , WS, Nation restricted
Jinn Warrior x1 HP 19, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 15, MM 22, WS, Fly, Eth,
Glamour, Sacr, Magic, Stealth 65, Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, SpSi, Unseen, Storm Immunity,
Mag: F2A2, Wpn: Enchanted Scimitar
Mercury Barrel W1E1 Magic Command 1, Retinue 1 , Heavy, Nation restricted
Living Mercury x1 HP 140, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 50, Str 28, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Spi, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush, Crush, Crush
Misc: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Special properties
Eye of the Oracle G4 Cursed, Attack Skill +5, Defence Skill +5, Precision +4, Warning 80% chance, Fortune Teller 40,
Tainted
The Ruby Eye F3 Cursed, Fire Magic +1, Water Gems 2/month
Fever Fetish F1N1 Diseased, Fire Gems 2/month
The Ark F5S5 Heavy, casts: Ark
Amulet of the Doppelganger G2 Seduction , Stealth 50
The Flying Ship A5 Army Flight 1000 size pnts, Fly Speed 26, Heavy
Igor Könhelm's Tome A2D2 Corpse construction Bonus 20, Storm Power 5
Tome of High Power A2S2 Air Magic +1, Astral Magic +1, Spell Range +50%, Tainted
The Magic Lamp A5F4 spell: Summon Jinn
Krupp's Bracers E2 Reinvig 3
Draupnir E5 Gold Production 400/month
The First Anvil E6 Master Smith 1
Holger the Head E1D1 Supply -3, Summoner 1d6 Hoburg Spearmen, casts: Grow Headless Hoburg
Percival the Pocket Knight E1N1 casts: Grow Knight
Alchemist's Stone E1F1 FR +15, Acid Res +15, CR +15, Alchemy Bonus 50
Gate Stone E7S7 Heavy, spell: Astral Travel
Atlas of Creation E5S5 Earth Magic +1, Astral Magic +1, Nature Magic +1, Tainted, spell: Record of Creation
Bell of Cleansing W2 FR +5, casts: Cleansing Chime
Orb of Atlantis W4E1 Water Magic +1, Magic Command 25, Gift of Water Breathing 600 size points, spell: Summon
Lesser Water Elemental, casts: Friendly Currents
Dome of the Ancients S5 MR +6, Ritual Warding Dome 50%, Heavy
The Astral Harpoon S5B1 spell: Astral Harpoon
The Forbidden Light S5F5 Cursed, Fire Magic +2, Astral Magic +2, Fire Gems 1/month, FR +5, CR +5, Fast Aging +1,
Tainted, casts: Solar Brilliance
Nethgul S3W2 casts: Nethgul
The Black Mirror S4B2 Curses wielder, Glamour Magic +1, MR -4, Heavy, spell: Mind Hunt
The Horror Harmonica S5G4 Morale -2, Tainted, spell: Call Horror, casts: Wailing Winds
Tome of the Lower Planes S3B2 Blood Magic +1
The Death Globes D2 Can only be used by death mages
Carcator the Pocket Lich D4 Research +4, Undead Command 50, casts: Grow Lich
The Ankh D5 SR +5, Tainted, casts: Life after Death
Disease Grinder D3F1 Convert Disease to Death Gems 1
The Black Book of Secrets D2B2 Death Magic +1, Blood Magic +1, Fear +5
The Green Eye N2 Cursed, Penetration +2, casts: Sleep
113
[[page 114]]
Wondrous Box of Monsters N4 Heavy, casts: Grow Monster
Fountain of Youth N3F3 Slows Down Aging in Province 75%
Midget's Revenge N1W1 Size +1, HP +10, Strength +2, Attack Skill +3, Defence Skill +3, Invulnerability 20, Maximum size
2
Soulstone of the Wolves N6E1 spell: Call of the Wild, casts: Howl
The Chalice N5S3 Healing 5, Slows Down Aging 100%, spell: Banishment
The Tome of Gaia N2E2 Earth Magic +1, Nature Magic +1
The Protection of Geryon B3 Cursed, No Forge Bonus, Banish Killer, Cannot be used by mindless, cost: 30 blood slaves
The Manual of Cross Breeding B3N3 Adept Cross Breeder +20, Tainted
The Gift of Kurgi B5 Eth, Flying, Cursed, Curses wielder, Fear +30, Protective Force 20, Storm Immunity, Cannot be
used by mindless, Tainted, Causes insanity, Affects mount too, spell: Send Lesser Horror, casts:
Call Lesser Horror
Ardmon's Soul Trap B3S1 Strength -2, Reinvig -1, casts: Open Soul Trap
Tome of the Forgotten E5B1 Cursed, Mason, Tainted
Masons
The Silver Arms E3F3 Cursed, HP +10, Strength +4, Extra Arms 2
Tome of Legends G5 Glamour Magic +2, Glamour Manipulator, Retinue 1
Phantasmal Beast x1 HP 62, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 19, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 20, Eth, Magic, Amph,
NNEat, TrSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal
Bite
The Missing Tune G5 Glamour Gems 1/month, MR -2, Morale +4, casts: The Missing Tune
The Trapped Dreams of G4S4 Cursed, Astral Magic +1, Glamour Magic +1, Blood Magic +1, Penetration +2, HP +15, Morale
Hruvur -2, Strength +2, Tainted
Orb of Elemental Fire F4 Fire Magic +1, Fire Gems 1/month, Fire Elemental Empowerment 1, FR +25, Heat 3
Orb of Elemental Air A4 Air Magic +1, Air Gems 1/month, Air Elemental Empowerment 1, SR +25, Overcharged 1 AN
capped dmg
Orb of Elemental Water W4 Water Magic +1, Water Gems 1/month, Water Elemental Empowerment 1, CR +25
Orb of Elemental Earth E4 Earth Magic +1, Earth Gems 1/month, Earth Elemental Empowerment 1, Reinvig 2, Strength req
16, Heavy
The Void Sphere S6B1 Cursed, Astral Magic +2, Temp Astral Gems 3, Astral Gems 2/month, Tainted, Causes insanity
The Quintessence Chest S3E2 Temp Fire Gems 2, Temp Air Gems 2, Temp Water Gems 2, Temp Earth Gems 2, Temp Astral
Gems 2, Temp Death Gems 2, Temp Nature Gems 2, Temp Glamour Gems 2, Heavy
Barding: Magical Trinkets (Construction level 1)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Barding: Lesser Magical Items (Construction level 3)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Enchanted Saddle N1 0 0 0 HP +2
Enchanted Barding N1 8 0 0 HP +4
Blacksteel Barding E2 21 -2 3 HP +4
Barding: Greater Magical Items (Construction level 5)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Boar Leather Barding N1 11 0 0 HP +6
Gossamer Barding G1 10 0 0 HP +6
Lightweight Cataphract A2 14 0 1 HP +6
Barding
Golden Barding F1S1 20 -2 3 HP +6, FR +5
114
[[page 115]]
Barding: Very Powerful Magical Items (Construction level 7)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Knight's Barding A1E1 20 -1 2 Air Shield, HP +8
Fay Steed Barding G1E1 18 -1 2 HP +8, Awe +2
Barding: Unique Magical Artifacts (Construction level 9)
Name Path Prot Def Enc Special properties
Sunrise Barding F2E2 21 0 1 HP +20, MR +4, FR +15, SR +15
115
[[page 116]]
Path Boosters
These are the magic items that can increase the path levels of magic users.
Path Boosting Magic Items
F A W E S D N G B H Name Requires Research
1 Skull Staff D2 5
1 Thistle Mace N2 5
1 Flame Helmet F4 5
1 Winged Helmet A4 5
1 Gossamer Veil G3 5
1 Robe of the Sea W3 5
1 Armor of Souls B5 5
1 1 Armor of Twisting Thorns B3N2 5
1 Earth Boots E2 5
1 Horn of Storms A5 5
1 Coin of Meteoritic Iron S2E2 5
1 Brazen Vessel B5 5
1 Blood Stone B3E2 5
1 1 1 1 Staff of Elemental Mastery F4W4 7
1 1 1 1 Staff of Elemental Mastery A4E4 7
2 Treelord's Staff N5 7
1 Blood Thorn B3 7
1 Starshine Skullcap S2 7
1 Skullface D5 7
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Robe of the Magi A5B5 7
1 Skull of Fire F1D1 7
1 Water Bracelet W1 7
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Ring of Wizardry S7 7
1 1 1 1 Ring of Sorcery S6 7
1 Moonvine Bracelet N3S1 7
1 Mirage Crystal G3E2 7
1 Ring of the False Prophet G4F2 7
116
[[page 117]]
Path Boosting Magic Artifacts
F A W E S D N G B H Name Requires Research
1 Sword of Justice F3S3 9
1 Trident from Beyond W3S2 9
1 The Sword of Many Colors G4F2 9
1 1 The Oath Rod of Kurgi S3B3 9
1 The Flailing Hands D2 9
2 Sceptre of Dark Regency D6 9
1 Sword of Injustice D4 9
1 Sun Slayer D6 9
1 Dimensional Rod S3 9
1 The Staff from the Sun S5F1 9
1 Immaculate Shield F3S2 9
1 1 1 1 Crown of the Elements F4W4 9
1 Flesh Ward B4 9
1 Pebble Skin Suit B4E1 9
1 Boots of Antaeus E4N1 9
1 The Ruby Eye F3 9
1 1 Tome of High Power A2S2 9
1 1 1 Atlas of Creation E5S5 9
1 Orb of Atlantis W4E1 9
2 2 The Forbidden Light S5F5 9
1 The Black Mirror S4B2 9
1 Tome of the Lower Planes S3B2 9
1 1 The Black Book of Secrets D2B2 9
1 1 The Tome of Gaia N2E2 9
2 Tome of Legends G5 9
1 1 1 The Trapped Dreams of Hruvur G4S4 9
1 Orb of Elemental Fire F4 9
1 Orb of Elemental Air A4 9
1 Orb of Elemental Water W4 9
1 Orb of Elemental Earth E4 9
2 The Void Sphere S6B1 9
117
[[page 118]]
Battlefield Spells
These spells can only be cast in battle. Any summons gained
through battle magic exist only as long as the battle lasts -
they are not permanent. Stats for these summoned creatures
are listed immediately below the spell statistics. Spells in the
Divine school require no research. They are available to all
nations with priests. The Holy level of the spell corresponds
to the level of the priest needed to cast it. There are a few
national spells (such as those of Ulm and Jomon) that require
both skill in Holy magic and another magic path. In these
cases, the caster must meet both requirements.
Spells costing 100 fatigue or greater require one gem of the
primary path. For every full 100 additional fatigue, a spell
requires another gem. So for a spell costing 700 fatigue, like
Arcane Domination, 7 gems are required (plus several more
are probably advisable just for fatigue reduction).
Fire Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 0 Fire Flies F1 20 30+ 0 -1 8 6 AP, NUW
Evo 1 Burning Hands F1 5 1 1 0 15+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 1 Fire Darts F1 20 30+ 0 1 10 4+ AP, NUW
Alt 2 Burn F1 10 30 0 100 0 1 NUW
Alt 2 Resist Cold F1 10 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 4 Combustion F1 20 30 1 100 0 1 NUW
Alt 6 Blindness F1 20 20 0 100 0 1 MR
Conj 3 Summon Lesser Fire F1 100 1 0 0 0 1 NUW
Elemental
Fire Elemental x1 HP 25, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 16, Eth, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Heat pow 1, FR +50, CR -5, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 4, Fire Shield 10
AP dmg, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 5 Will o' the Wisp F1 100 0 0 0 0 2 NUW
Will o' the Wisp x2 HP 3, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 3, Att 20, Def 20, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 22, MM 22, SS, Float, Eth,
Spi, Magic, Mind, NNEat, FR +15, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Flame Burst
Ench 1 Protection from Fire F1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 3 Fire Shield F1 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Thau 2 Bonds of Fire F1 20 20 0 3 0 1 NUW
Evo 1 Flame Bolt F2 20 45+ 1 2 15+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 2 Fire Blast F2 20 7+ 3 0 15+ 1 AP, NUW
118
key meaning
Path Level in Magical Path(s) required for casting
F / A / W / E Fire / Air / Water / Earth
S / D / N / G aStral / Death / Nature / Glamour
B / H / ? Blood / Holy / Random path
Fat Fatigue
Rng Range
AoE Area of Effect
Pre Precision
Dmg Damage
NoE Number of Effects
AN Armor-Negating (ignores protection)
AP Armor-Piercing (uses half protection)
NUW Not castable underwater
UW Only castable underwater
MR Magic Resistance negates
MR- Magic Resistance negates easily (+4 to MR)
BF Entire battlefield affected
Mun Mundane (attack counts as non-magical)
BE Battlefield Enchantment (Remains active as long as
the caster is still present)
UndIm Undead are Immune
InanimIm Inanimates are Immune
MindIm Mindless are Immune
SpiIm Spiritforms are Immune
[[page 119]]
Evo 2 Sulphur Haze F2A1 20 30 4+ 0 104+ 1 AN, NUW
Evo 3 Fireball F2 20 35+ 1 1 16+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 6 Flame Eruption F2 30 7+ 15 0 13+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 8 Pillar of Fire F2 20 100 1 0 35+ 1 AP, NUW
Alt 3 Immolation F2 20 0 7 0 12+ 1 AP, NUW
Alt 3 Cold Resistance F2 20 15 1 0 0 1
Alt 7 Phoenix Pyre F2 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Alt 8 Conflagration F2 20 30 10 100 0 1 NUW
Conj 3 Phoenix Power F2 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Conj 4 Nest of Salamanders F2 100 0 0 0 0 10+ NUW
Salamander Asp x10+ HP 2, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 2, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 10, SS, Magic, Mind,
NNEat, Stealth 40, Heat pow 1, FR +25, Fire Shield 3 AP dmg, Wpn: Flame Poison Bite
Ench 2 Ignite Arrows F2 20 10 1 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 3 Lesser Flame Ward F2 20 15 1 0 0 1
Ench 5 Flame Ward F2 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Thau 2 Battle Fury F2 20 10 1 2 0 1 AnimIm, MindIm
Thau 3 Rage F2 20 30 0 100 0 1 MR, MindIm
Thau 4 Furious Warriors F2 40 15 3+ 2 0 1 AnimIm, MindIm
Thau 8 Hydrophobia F2 100 30 5 100 0 1 MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm
Evo 2 Flare F3 50 45+ 1 1 22+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 4 Fire Cloud F3A1 20 30 8+ 1 8 1 AP, NUW
Evo 5 Falling Fires F3 20 50 6+ -3 15 1 AP, NUW
Evo 5 Hidden Flame F3S1 20 40+ 1 0 25+ 1 AN, NUW
Alt 5 Cold Resistant Warriors F3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Alt 5 Incinerate F3 20 30 0 100 18+ 1 AN
Alt 5 Solar Eclipse F3S1 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 6 Boil F3W1 20 30 1 100 9+ 1 AN, UW
Conj 5 Summon Fire Elemental F3 100 1 0 0 0 1 NUW
Fire Elemental x1 HP 70, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 18, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 16, Eth, Spi,
Inanim, Magic, Mind, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Heat pow 1, FR +50, CR -5, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 7, Fire
Shield 13 AP dmg, Wpn: Flame Strike
Ench 5 Flaming Arrows F3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 NUW
Thau 4 Prison of Fire F3 30 30 3+ 2 0 1 NUW
Thau 5 Gift of the Furies F3 100 15 20+ 2 0 1 AnimIm, MindIm
Alt 8 Flameflesh Army F4 200 0 BF 0 0 1
Conj 7 Living Fire F4 200 1 0 0 0 4+ NUW
Fire Elemental x4+ HP 53, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 16, Eth, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Heat pow 1, FR +50, CR -5, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 6, Fire Shield 12
AP dmg, Wpn: Flame Strike
Ench 6 Heat from Hell F4 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Ench 7 Hail of Burning Embers F4 200 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 8 Fire Fend F4 100 0 BF 0 0 1
Evo 7 Fire Storm F5 300 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Evo 9 Flame Storm F5 100 40+ 50 0 15+ 1 AP, NUW
Alt 8 All-consuming Pyre F5 100 0 40 0 20+ 1 AP, NUW
119
[[page 120]]
Air Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Alt 0 Air Shield A1 10 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Evo 1 Shocking Grasp A1 3 1 0 0 18+ 1 AN
Evo 1 Gust of Winds A1 10 35+ 2 2 15+ 1 Mun, NUW
Alt 1 Charge Body A1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Conj 2 Summon Hawk A1 20 5 0 0 0 1 NUW
Black Hawk x1 HP 5, Prot 0, MR 5, Mor 8, Str 5, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 22, FS, MS, Fly, Wpn:
Dive attack, Talons
Conj 2 Summon Storm Power A1 10 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Conj 3 Summon Lesser Air A1 100 1 0 0 0 1 NUW
Elemental
Air Elemental x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 7, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Spi,
Inanim, Magic, Mind, Trample, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Storm Power 2, SR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn:
Lightning Swarm
Ench 1 Levitate A1 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 1 Trueshot A1 5 10 1 5 0 1 NUW
Ench 1 Windrunner A1 10 0 0 0 0 1 AN
Ench 1 Protection from Lightning A1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 2 Personal Flight A1 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 3 Farflight A1 20 10 1 0 0 1 NUW
Thau 2 Steal Breath A1 20 30 0 5 40+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Evo 2 Lightning Bolt A2 10 40+ 0 4 14+ 1 AN
Evo 2 Shock Wave A2 10 2 6 0 9+ 1 AN
Evo 3 Storm Wind A2 10 40+ 8+ 3 17+ 1 Mun, NUW
Evo 5 Orb Lightning A2 20 20 0 0 5 1 AN, Chaining 7
Alt 2 Personal Mistform A2 10 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 3 Protective Winds A2 40 15 3+ 0 0 1 NUW
Alt 4 Lacerating Winds A2 20 40+ 5+ 1 5+ 1 NUW
Alt 4 Mistform A2 20 10 1 0 0 1
Ench 3 Arrow of the Western Wind A2 20 50+ 0 25 20+ 1 NUW
Ench 3 Gift of Flight A2 20 10 1 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 3 Lesser Thunder Ward A2 20 15 1 0 0 1
Ench 4 Levitate Soldiers A2 40 15 3+ 0 0 1 AN, NUW
Ench 4 Trueshot Warriors A2 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 5 Farflight Arrows A2 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 5 Thunder Ward A2 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Evo 4 Thunder Strike A3 50 100 1 -2 26+ 1 AN, NUW
Evo 8 Chain Lightning A3 30 25 0 0 6+ 1 AN, Chaining 20
Alt 3 Mist A3 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 5 Arrow Ward A3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 NUW
Conj 5 Summon Air Elemental A3 100 1 0 0 0 1 NUW
Air Elemental x1 HP 48, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 13, Att 15, Def 15, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 26, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Spi,
Inanim, Magic, Mind, Trample, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Storm Power 4, SR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn:
Lightning Swarm
Ench 6 Wind Guide A3 100 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Alt 5 Storm A4 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
120
[[page 121]]
Alt 6 Blizzard A4W3 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 7 Arrow Fend A4 100 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Alt 7 Fog Warriors A4 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Conj 7 Living Clouds A4 200 1 0 0 0 4+ NUW
Air Elemental x4+ HP 35, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 24, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Spi,
Inanim, Magic, Mind, Trample, NNEat, Aff Res 99, Storm Power 3, SR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn:
Lightning Swarm
Ench 6 Greater Farflight A4 100 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 7 Mass Flight A4 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 8 Thunder Fend A4 100 0 BF 0 0 1
Evo 6 Wrathful Skies A5 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 8 Army of Mist A5 300 0 BF 0 0 1
Ench 8 Soaring Army A5 300 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Evo 9 Lightning Field A6 100 30 100 0 1 1 AN, Chaining 8
Water Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 0 Freezing Touch W1 10 1 0 1 9+ 1 AN, NUW
Evo 1 Slime W1 20 30+ 1 2 0 1 MR, NUW
Evo 1 Water Strike W1 20 35+ 1 2 13+ 1 UW
Evo 1 Geyser W1F1 10 20+ 3 3 6+ 1 AP
Alt 2 Resist Fire W1 10 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 2 Quicken Self W1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 2 Ice Shield W1 20 0 0 0 0 1 UW
Alt 4 Liquid Body W1 20 0 0 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 6 Frozen Heart W1 20 25+ 0 100 10+ 1 AN, InanimIm
Conj 2 Summon Water Power W1 20 0 0 0 0 1 UW
Conj 3 Summon Lesser Water W1 100 1 0 0 0 1
Elemental
Water Elemental x1 HP 27, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 16, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, FR +5, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush
Ench 1 Protection from Cold W1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 2 Water Shield W1 20 0 0 0 0 1 UW
Ench 2 Breath of Winter W1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 6 Water Ward W1 100 15 25 0 0 1 UW
Thau 2 Calm Emotions W1 20 10 0 100 0 1 MR, MindIm
Evo 1 Cold Bolt W2 20 50+ 1 3 13+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 1 Acid Spray W2F1 20 2 5 0 10 1 AP, NUW
Evo 2 Cold Blast W2 20 7+ 3 0 12+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 3 Acid Bolt W2F1 30 35+ 1 3 16+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 6 Cleansing Water W2 20 30+ 5+ 0 5+ 1 AN, NUW
Evo 7 Ice Strike W2 20 30 24+ 1 18 1 NUW
Alt 2 Gooey Water W2 20 35+ 5+ 2 0 1 MR, UW
Alt 3 Fire Resistance W2 20 15 1 0 0 1
Alt 3 Freeze W2 20 25 1 100 0 1
Alt 4 Quickness W2 20 15 1 1 0 1
Alt 4 Slow W2 20 30 1 100 0 1 MR
Alt 4 Encase in Ice W2 20 25 1 100 0 1 UW
121
[[page 122]]
Alt 5 Gift of Formlessness W2 40 10 1 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 8 Quickening W2 100 20 9+ 0 0 1
Conj 4 School of Sharks W2 100 0 0 0 0 10+ UW
Small Shark x10+ HP 2, Prot 0, MR 4, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Aqua, NNEat,
Stealth 40, Wpn: Bite
Ench 3 Lesser Winter Ward W2 20 15 1 0 0 1
Ench 5 Winter Ward W2 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Thau 1 Desiccation W2 20 30 1 100 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Evo 3 Rain W3 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Evo 3 Freezing Mist W3A1 20 30 10+ 1 1 1 AN, NUW
Evo 4 Acid Rain W3F1 30 30 6+ -1 12 1 AP, NUW
Evo 5 Falling Frost W3 20 50 10+ -2 10+ 1 AP, NUW
Alt 5 Winter's Chill W3 20 25 5+ 100 0 1
Alt 5 Fire Resistant Warriors W3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Alt 5 Bone Melter W3N2 20 25 1 3 Death 1 Mun, MR, SpiIm
Alt 7 Prison of Sedna W3 100 25 6+ 100 0 1 UW
Alt 7 Crawl W3 100 30 6+ 100 0 1 MR
Alt 7 Wave Warriors W3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Conj 5 Summon Water Elemental W3 100 1 0 0 0 1
Water Elemental x1 HP 81, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 18, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, FR +10, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush, Crush,
Crush, Crush
Conj 6 Shark Attack W3 300 1 0 0 0 1 BE, UW
Ench 5 Friendly Currents W3 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, UW
Thau 3 Sailors' Death W3 20 30 1 1 14+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Thau 4 Curse of the Desert W3 30 30 5 100 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Thau 5 Serenity W3 20 15 3+ 100 0 1 MR, MindIm
Evo 7 Acid Storm W4F1 300 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 8 Liquify W4 20 30 3 100 Death 1 MR-, SpiIm
Alt 8 Frostflesh Army W4 200 0 BF 0 0 1
Conj 7 Living Water W4 200 1 0 0 0 4+
Water Elemental x4+ HP 60, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 16, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, FR +10, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush, Crush,
Crush
Ench 5 Quagmire W4 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Ench 6 Grip of Winter W4 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE
Ench 8 Frost Fend W4 100 0 BF 0 0 1
Evo 9 Niefel Flames W5 100 40+ 75+ 0 12+ 1 AP, NUW
Ench 9 Demon Cleansing W5 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE
122
[[page 123]]
Earth Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 0 Flying Shards E1 30 30+ 0 0 7+ 4+ Mun, NUW
Evo 3 Magma Bolts E1F1 20 30+ 0 2 25+ 5 NUW
Alt 1 Fists of Iron E1 20 1 0 100 15 1+
Alt 1 Earth Grip E1 10 20 0 5 0 1
Alt 2 Resist Lightning E1 10 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 2 Personal Stoneskin E1 10 0 0 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 2 Armor of Achilles E1 40 15 1 3 10 1 AN
Alt 3 Personal Ironskin E1 20 0 0 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 4 Temper Flesh E1 20 0 0 0 0 1 SpiIm
Conj 3 Summon Lesser Earth E1 100 1 0 0 0 1
Elemental
Earth Elemental x1 HP 33, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 16, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, NNEat, Aff Res 4, Reconstruction 10%, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn:
Crystal Fist
Ench 2 Flying Shield E1A1 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Thau 3 Iron Will E1 20 25 1 100 0 1 MindIm
Evo 2 Rust Mist E2W1 30 30 9+ 0 0 1 NUW
Evo 6 Magma Eruption E2F2 50 30 6+ 0 22+ 1
Alt 3 Lightning Resistance E2 20 15 1 0 0 1
Alt 3 Earth Meld E2 60 25 5 3 0 1
Alt 4 Stoneskin E2 20 15 1 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 5 Ironskin E2 40 10 1 2 0 1 SpiIm
Conj 3 Summon Earthpower E2 20 0 0 0 0 1
Cnst 2 Temper Armors E2 30 15 5+ 0 0 1
Ench 1 Strength of Giants E2 20 5 1 0 0 1
Ench 3 Gift of Giant Strength E2 40 15 3+ 0 0 1
Ench 4 Earth Shatter Hammers E2 40 15 1 0 0 1
Ench 4 Shroud of Flying Shards E2A1 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Thau 1 Farstrike E2S1 5 50 0 5 17+ 1
Evo 4 Blade Wind E3 80 35+ 0 0 14 50+ Mun, NUW
Evo 5 Gifts from Heaven E3S1 50 100 1 -3 150 3 NUW
Evo 7 Rain of Stones E3A1 100 0 0 0 0 1 Mun, BE, NUW
Alt 4 Destruction E3 40 30 6 3 5 1 AN
Alt 4 Curse of Stones E3 300 0 BF 0 0 1 MR-
Alt 5 Group Stoneskin E3 40 15 3+ 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 5 Lightning Resistant E3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Warriors
Alt 5 Maws of the Earth E3 100 30+ 7+ 3 15+ 1 AP
Alt 5 Shatter E3 20 15 0 100 35+ 1 AN
Alt 6 Group Ironskin E3 60 15 3+ 2 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 6 Iron Bane E3 100 0 BF 0 0 1
Alt 7 Marble Warriors E3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 SpiIm
Conj 5 Summon Earth Elemental E3 100 1 0 0 0 1
Earth Elemental x1 HP 93, Prot 14, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 22, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, NNEat, Aff Res 4, Reconstruction 7%, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crystal
Fist, Crystal Fist
123
[[page 124]]
Cnst 4 Soldiers of Steel E3 60 15 20+ 0 0 1
Ench 5 Giant Strength Warriors E3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Ench 5 Weapons of Sharpness E3 40 15 1 0 0 1
Evo 5 Earthquake E4 300 0 BF 0 8 1 Mun, AP, NUW
Alt 8 Iron Warriors E4 200 15 20+ 2 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 8 Marble Army E4 300 0 BF 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 8 Ground Army E4 200 0 BF 0 0 1
Conj 7 Living Earth E4 200 1 0 0 0 4+
Earth Elemental x4+ HP 70, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 19, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 16, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, NNEat, Aff Res 4, Reconstruction 8%, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crystal
Fist
Cnst 6 Legions of Steel E4 100 0 BF 0 0 1
Ench 6 Earthquake Warriors E4 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Ench 7 Steel Slice Warriors E4 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Evo 8 Meteor Shower E5S4 300 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 6 Petrify E5 40 30 1 100 Death 1 AN, SpiIm
Alt 9 Army of Gold E5F1 300 0 BF 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 9 Army of Lead E5S1 300 0 BF 0 0 1 SpiIm
Ench 9 Earth Shatter Army E5 200 0 BF 0 0 1
Alt 9 Army of Bronze E6 300 0 BF 0 0 1 SpiIm
Astral Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Alt 0 Twist Fate S1 10 0 0 0 0 1
Evo 1 Star Fires S1 20 35 0 2 5+ 3 AN, NUW
Evo 3 Magic Duel S1 100 100 0 100 Death 1 AN, MindIm
Evo 3 Healing Light S1N1 20 30+ 1 100 15 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm, NUW
Evo 4 Nether Bolt S1D1 15 35+ 1 2 20+ 1 AP, MR+
Evo 7 Nether Darts S1D1 15 30+ 0 0 15+ 15+ AP, MR+
Alt 2 Gift of Cheated Fate S1 20 10 1 0 0 1
Alt 3 Body Ethereal S1 30 10 1 0 0 1
Conj 3 Power of the Spheres S1 100 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 1 Resist Magic S1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 3 Astral Shield S1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 3 Second Sight S1D1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Thau 1 Blink S1 10 0 0 0 30 1
Thau 1 Communion Master S1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Thau 1 Communion Slave S1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Evo 1 Arcane Bolt S2 20 40+ 1 3 10+ 1 AN
Evo 2 Solar Rays S2 20 40+ 1 100 14+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 5 Stellar Cascades S2 20 35 7 100 25 1 AP, NUW
Ench 4 Spell Ward S2 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Thau 1 Horror Mark S2 20 50 0 100 0 1 MindIm
Thau 2 Returning S2 200 0 0 0 1 1 AN
Thau 2 Mind Burn S2 20 100 0 100 12+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm
Thau 4 Paralyze S2 20 100 0 100 60+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm
Evo 5 Astral Geyser S3 20 50+ 1 0 0 1 AN, MindIm
124
[[page 125]]
Alt 6 Control S3 100 25 0 100 0 1 AN, MR
Conj 4 Light of the Northern Star S3 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE
Ench 4 Astral Healing S3 100 0 BF 0 2 1 AN, InanimIm, MindIm
Ench 5 Gift of Spirit Sight S3D1 20 15 1 0 0 1
Ench 6 Opposition S3 20 25 0 100 Death 1 MR
Ench 7 Antimagic S3 200 0 BF 0 0 1
Thau 5 Soul Slay S3 20 100 0 100 Death 1 AN, MR, MindIm
Evo 6 Astral Fires S4F1 20 45+ 1 100 10 1 AN, MR+
Alt 6 Rewrite Fate S4 100 15 20+ 5 0 1
Alt 7 Doom S4 100 0 BF 0 0 1
Thau 6 Enslave Mind S4 20 100 0 100 0 1 AN, MR, MindIm
Thau 7 Vortex of Returning S4 300 0 BF 0 1 1 AN
Evo 8 Astral Tempest S5 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE
Alt 7 Will of the Fates S5 200 0 BF 0 0 1
Ench 7 Solar Brilliance S5 300 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Thau 8 Soul Drain S5D5 500 0 0 0 0 1 MindIm, BE
Alt 9 Time Stop S6 100 0 0 0 104 1 MR
Ench 8 Unraveling S6 600 0 BF 0 0 1 MR
Alt 8 Arcane Domination S7 700 0 BF 0 0 1 AN, MR-
Thau 9 Master Enslave S8 800 0 BF 0 0 1 AN, MR-, MindIm
Death Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Alt 0 Hand of Dust D1 10 1 0 0 6+ 1 AN
Evo 4 Bane Fire Dart D1F1 20 30+ 0 4 15+ 1 AP, NUW
Alt 1 Skeletal Body D1 20 0 0 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 2 Weakness D1 20 25 0 3 3 1 AN, MR
Alt 4 Stygian Skin D1W1 20 0 0 0 0 1 InanimIm, SpiIm
Conj 1 Spirit Curse D1 100 50 0 100 0 1
Conj 5 Ghost Grip D1 10 25 0 3 25+ 5
Conj 5 Corpse Candle D1F1 100 0 0 0 0 3 NUW
Corpse Candle x3 HP 4, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 4, Att 19, Def 19, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, SS, Float, Eth,
Spi, Magic, Mind, NNEat, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Bane Burst
Ench 1 Animate Skeleton D1 30 5 0 -2 0 1
Longdead x1 HP 5, Prot 8, MR 9, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spear
Ench 1 Animate Dead D1 20 5 0 -2 0 1
Thau 1 Dust to Dust D1 20 30 1 0 22+ 1 AN
Thau 1 Decay D1 20 25 0 3 0 1 MR
Thau 1 Frighten D1 5 50 1 5 5 1 AN
Evo 3 Shadow Bolt D2 20 35+ 1 3 7+ 1 AN, UndIm
Evo 4 Bolt of Unlife D2 20 30+ 1 1 15+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, MindIm
Evo 5 Shadow Blast D2 100 35+ 9+ 0 8+ 1 AN, UndIm
Alt 1 Hand of Death D2 5 1 0 0 40+ 1 AN
Alt 5 Enfeeble D2 100 25 6+ 3 2 1 AN, MR
Alt 8 Disintegrate D2 10 30 0 100 Death 1 AN, MR
Conj 4 Summon Lammashtas D2 100 0 0 0 0 2
125
[[page 126]]
Lammashta x2 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Und, Amph, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Wpn: Wraith Sword
Ench 3 Raise Skeletons D2 40 5 0 -2 0 3
Longdead x3 HP 5, Prot 0, MR 9, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 22, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spear
Ench 4 Raise Dead D2 40 5 0 -2 0 10+
Ench 5 Horde of Skeletons D2 40 5 0 -2 0 5+
Longdead x5+ HP 5, Prot 8, MR 9, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Broad Sword
Thau 5 Control the Dead D2 20 25 1 0 0 1 AN, MR
Evo 6 Blast of Unlife D3 20 30+ 2 0 20+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, MindIm
Evo 6 Bane Fire D3F1 20 45+ 1 1 55+ 1 AP
Evo 7 Stygian Rains D3W2 200 0 BF 0 0 1 InanimIm, NUW
Alt 5 Invulnerability D3 20 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 6 Soul Vortex D3 40 0 0 0 0 1
Thau 4 Terror D3 20 30 5+ 1 0 1 AN
Thau 5 Leeching Darkness D3 20 30 3+ 1 0 1 AP, MR, NUW
Thau 6 Wither Bones D3 50 30 6+ -1 16+ 1 AN
Evo 7 Cloud of Death D4A1 20 30 15+ -3 1192+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, NUW
Evo 7 Wind of Death D4A1 100 0 BF 0 0 1 MR-, NUW
Alt 5 Drain Life D4 10 30 0 100 14+ 1 AN, InanimIm
Alt 6 Skeletal Legion D4 100 0 BF 0 0 1
Alt 6 Darkness D4 400 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Ench 6 Rigor Mortis D4 300 0 0 0 0 1 AN, MR+, UndIm, InanimIm,
BE
Ench 7 Life after Death D4 400 0 BF 0 0 1 MindIm
Thau 7 Plague D4 100 25 1 0 0 1 MR, UndIm, InanimIm
Evo 8 Vortex of Unlife D5 20 30+ 8+ 0 16+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, MindIm
Ench 8 Fields of the Dead D5E2 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE
Alt 7 Bone Grinding D7 100 0 BF 0 3 1 Mun, AN
Thau 8 Undead Mastery D7 700 0 BF 0 0 1 AN, MR-
Nature Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Alt 0 Poison Touch N1 5 1 0 0 10+ 1 AN
Evo 1 Vine Arrow N1 20 30+ 0 0 14+ 1 NUW
Evo 2 Web N1 20 25+ 3 2 0 1 Mun
Evo 3 Poison Darts N1 20 30+ 0 3 9 5+ AP, NUW
Alt 1 Eagle Eyes N1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 1 Cat Eyes N1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 1 Personal Poison Resistance N1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Alt 1 Personal Barkskin N1 5 0 0 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 3 Gift of Cat Eyes N1 20 15 2+ 0 0 1
Alt 3 Barkskin N1 20 10 1 100 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 3 Animate Tree N1 20 10 1 100 0 1 InanimIm, NUW
Alt 3 Mossbody N1W1 20 10 1 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 4 Elemental Fortitude N1 10 0 0 0 0 1
Conj 1 Tangle Vines N1 20 20 1 2 0 1
126
[[page 127]]
Conj 4 Maggots N1 100 25 0 100 50 1 Mun, AN
Ench 1 Protection from Poison N1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 1 Healing Touch N1 20 1 1 1 30+ 1 AN, InanimIm
Ench 2 Proud Steed N1 20 10 1 2 0 1 Anim, Mount, MindIm
Ench 2 Gift of the Hare N1 20 15 1+ 0 0 1 AN
Ench 2 Envenom Arrows N1 20 10 1 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 2 Gift of the Serpent N1 20 15 1 0 0 1
Ench 3 Heal N1 20 15 1 5 30+ 1 AN, InanimIm
Thau 1 Seven Year Fever N1F1 30 25 1 2 0 1 MR, UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 2 Beast Fury N1 20 10 1 2 0 1 Anim, MindIm
Thau 4 Touch of Madness N1 30 20 1 0 0 1 AN, InanimIm, MindIm
Evo 4 Breath of the Dragon N2 20 20+ 4+ -1 7+ 1 AN, NUW
Evo 5 Poison Arrows N2 20 35+ 0 3 15+ 4+ NUW
Evo 7 Storm of Thorns N2 20 35+ 0 0 15+ 10+ NUW
Alt 2 Enlarge N2 20 10 1 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 3 Torpor N2 20 35 1 100 20+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm
Alt 4 Group Barkskin N2 40 15 3+ 100 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 4 Swarm N2 100 0 0 0 0 20+
Large Beetle x20+ HP 1, Prot 1, MR 3, Mor 50, Str 1, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 6, MM 20, FS, Fly, Magic,
Mind, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Tiny Sting
Alt 4 Shrink N2 20 20+ 1 0 0 1 MR, SpiIm
Alt 5 Blood Poisoning N2 20 30 0 100 15+ 1 AN
Alt 6 Venomous Death N2D1 20 30 0 100 25+ 1 AN
Alt 7 Curse of the Frog Prince N2 20 25 0 100 0 1 MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
SpiIm, MindIm
Conj 4 Nest of Asps N2D1 100 0 0 0 0 10+ NUW
Asp x10+ HP 2, Prot 1, MR 4, Mor 50, Str 2, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 10, SS, Magic, Mind,
NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Asp Bite
Ench 2 Personal Regeneration N2 20 0 0 0 0 1 InanimIm
Ench 4 Immaculate Mounts N2 20 10 3+ 2 0 1 Anim, Mount, MindIm
Ench 4 Poison Ward N2 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Thau 3 Panic N2 20 30 5+ 1 1 1 AN
Thau 4 Ferocity N2 20 15 3+ 2 0 1 Anim, MindIm
Thau 4 Rage of the Cornered Rat N2 20 20 3+ 0 0 1 AN, Anim
Thau 5 Charm Animal N2 20 20 0 100 0 1 MR-, Anim
Thau 5 Pack Ferocity N2 100 15 20+ 2 0 1 Anim, MindIm
Conj 4 Tangle Thicket N2 30 20 3+ 2 0 1
Evo 5 Poison Cloud N3A1 20 30 6+ -1 64 1 AN
Evo 6 Stream of Life N3 20 40+ 1 2 40+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm
Evo 7 Poison Mist N3A1 40 30 15+ -1 64 1 AN
Alt 6 Eagle-eyed Warriors N3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Alt 5 Cat-eyed Warriors N3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1
Alt 6 Wooden Warriors N3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 6 Giant Warriors N3 100 10 10 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 7 Creeping Doom N3 100 0 0 0 0 70+ NUW
Large Spider x70+ HP 1, Prot 1, MR 3, Mor 50, Str 1, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 4, Enc 2, CS 4, MM 10, FS, Magic, Mind,
NNEat, Stealth 40, PR +15, Wpn: Sting
127
[[page 128]]
Alt 8 Polymorph N3 200 25 10+ 5 0 1 MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
SpiIm, MindIm
Conj 4 Strength of Gaia N3E1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Conj 5 Howl N3 300 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Ench 3 Regeneration N3 40 15 1 0 0 1 InanimIm
Ench 4 Haste N3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 AN, InanimIm
Ench 4 Serpent Fang Arrows N3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 5 Group Regeneration N3 60 15 3+ 0 0 1 InanimIm
Thau 4 Wildness N3 20 30 1 3 0 1 MR, Anim
Thau 5 The Ravenous Swarm N3 100 1 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 7 Oaken Army N4 300 0 BF 0 0 1 SpiIm
Conj 8 Wild Growth N4 40 20 10+ 0 0 1
Ench 6 Hail of Serpent Fangs N4 200 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 6 Foul Vapors N4W1 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE
Ench 7 Mass Regeneration N4 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 InanimIm
Ench 7 Serpent's Blessing N4 200 0 BF 0 0 1
Thau 6 Growing Fury N4 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE
Thau 7 Fury of the Wild N4 200 0 BF 0 0 1 Anim, MindIm
Alt 8 Army of Giants N5 300 0 BF 0 0 1 SpiIm
Alt 9 Army of Rats N5 400 0 BF 0 0 1 MR+, SpiIm
Alt 9 Awaken Forest N5 200 0 BF 100 0 1 InanimIm, NUW
Ench 6 Relief N5 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE
Ench 8 Army Regeneration N5 300 0 BF 0 0 1 InanimIm
Ench 9 Gaia's Blessing N5E2 300 0 BF 0 0 1
Thau 9 Beast Mastery N6 400 0 BF 0 0 1 AN, MR-, Anim
Glamour Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 0 Sleep Ray G1 20 1 1 0 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm
Evo 1 Bewitching Lights G1 20 30 3 1 100 1 AN, MR-, MindIm, NUW
Evo 2 Warrior Illusion G1 10 5 0 0 0 1
Warrior Illusion x1 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Illu,
Inanim, Mind, Amph, NNEat, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Weapon
Evo 3 False Fire G1F1 20 30+ 1 1 14+ 1 AP, MR, NUW
Evo 3 Elf Shot G1N1 20 30+ 0 4 100 1 AN, MR, NUW
Alt 1 Blurred Body G1 10 0 0 0 0 1 AN
Alt 2 Mirror Image G1 10 0 0 0 2+ 1 AN
Alt 2 Blur G1 20 20 1 0 0 1 AN
Conj 3 Conjure Phantasmal G1 100 5 0 0 0 2
Wolves
Phantasmal Wolf x2 HP 11, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 26, FS, MS, Eth,
Magic, NNEat, TrSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Bite
Conj 6 Summon Sprites G1N1 100 1 0 0 0 6 NUW
Sprite x6 HP 2, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 3, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 22, FS, SS, Fly,
Glamour, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 65, TrSi, Wpn: Fist, Elf Shot
Ench 1 True Sight G1 5 0 0 0 0 1
Ench 2 Shroud of Splendor G1F1 10 0 0 0 0 1 AN
128
[[page 129]]
Ench 3 Gift of True Sight G1 20 10 1 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 6 Steal Sight G1 20 20 0 100 0 1 MR
Thau 1 Fascination G1 20 15 0 100 100 1 AN, MR, MindIm
Thau 1 Personal Luck G1 20 0 0 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 1 Curse G1S1 30 50 0 100 0 1
Thau 3 Luck G1 20 10 1 2 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 4 Mind Blank G1S1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Evo 2 Ephemeral Bolt G2 10 35+ 1 2 4+ 1 AN, MR
Evo 3 Dance of Ephemeral G2 10 0 0 0 0 1 AN
Swords
Evo 3 Cloud of Dreamless G2A1 20 30 3+ 3 4346+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
Slumber MindIm
Alt 3 Displace Body G2 10 0 0 0 0 1 AN
Alt 3 Group Blur G2 40 20 3+ 0 0 1 AN
Alt 6 Gift of Displacement G2 20 10 1 0 0 1 AN
Conj 4 Conjure Phantasmal G2 100 5 0 0 0 2
Warriors
Phantasmal Warrior x2 HP 14, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 20, Eth, Magic,
NNEat, TrSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Weapon
Conj 7 Conjure Phantasmal Knight G2 100 5 0 0 0 1
Phantasmal Knight x1 HP 15, Prot 17, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 14, Def 20, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Eth,
Magic, NNEat, TrSi, Rider 3, Wpn: Phantasmal Lance, Phantasmal Weapon, Mount: Phantasmal
Steed
Ench 1 False Fetters G2 10 15 2+ 0 0 1 MR
Ench 3 Shroud of Bewilderment G2 20 0 0 0 0 1 AN
Ench 3 Horrible Visage G2D1 10 0 0 0 0 1 AN
Ench 4 Gift of Splendor G2F1 20 10 1 0 0 1 AN
Thau 2 Sleep G2 20 35 0 100 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm
Thau 3 Despair G2 10 30 5+ 1 4 1 AN, MR
Thau 4 Slumber G2 20 35 3+ 100 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm
Thau 5 Confusion G2 10 30 1 3 0 1 MR, MindIm
Thau 5 Group Luck G2 40 15 3+ 2 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 6 Mirror Mind G2S1 20 15 3+ 0 0 1
Evo 4 Ephemeral Blast G3 10 40+ 4+ 2 7+ 1 AN, MR
Evo 4 Ghost Wolves G3 10 5 0 0 0 2
Wolf Illusion x2 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 9, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 26, MM 22, Eth, Illu,
Inanim, Mind, Amph, NNEat, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Bite
Evo 5 Illusory Army G3 100 3+ 0 0 0 20+
Warrior Illusion x20+ HP 1, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Illu,
Inanim, Mind, Amph, NNEat, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Weapon
Evo 6 False Horror G3 10 5 0 0 0 1
False Horror x1 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 4, MM 22, Float, Eth, Illu,
Inanim, Mind, Amph, NNEat, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal Claw
Alt 4 Twilight G3 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 5 Nightfall G3 100 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 5 Shadow Warriors G3 100 20 20+ 0 0 1 AN
129
[[page 130]]
Alt 6 Invisibility G3 10 0 0 0 0 1 AN
Ench 6 Fay-eyed Warriors G3 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 NUW
Conj 5 Conjure Phantasmal Beast G3 100 5 0 0 0 1
Phantasmal Beast x1 HP 62, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 19, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 20, Eth, Magic,
Amph, NNEat, TrSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal Claw, Phantasmal
Claw, Phantasmal Bite
Ench 6 Aura of Splendor G3F1 40 15 5+ 0 0 1 AN
Thau 4 Visions of Death G3 20 35+ 0 100 25+ 1 AN, MR
Thau 6 Unending Nightmare G3D1 20 35 3+ 100 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm
Thau 7 Charm G3 30 25 0 100 0 1 AN, MR, MindIm
Thau 7 Mass Confusion G3 10 30 5+ 3 0 1 MR, MindIm
Evo 7 Wailing Winds G4A1 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Alt 7 Army of Shades G4 200 0 BF 0 0 1 AN
Alt 8 Displaced Warriors G4 100 15 20+ 0 0 1 AN
Ench 7 Aura of Bewilderment G4 100 15 5+ 0 0 1 AN
Ench 7 Nightmare Masks G4D1 100 15 5+ 0 0 1 AN
Ench 7 Warriors of the Dawn G4F1 100 20 20+ 0 0 1 AN
Thau 8 Battle Fortune G4 200 15 20+ 5 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Evo 7 Shimmering Fields G5 200 25 50 0 9+ 1 AN, MR
Evo 8 Aurora Borealis G5S1 200 1 1 -1 0 1 BE, NUW
Ench 8 Mists of Deception G5A1 200 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Thau 6 Sandman's Blessing G5 20 30 25 0 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
MindIm
Thau 9 Dreamwild Legion G5 400 0 BF 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 9 Legion's Demise G7 400 0 0 0 0 1 AN, MR-, BE
Blood Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Blood 0 Bleed B1 100 30+ 0 0 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 1 Blood Burst B1 200 35 1 5 11+ 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 1 Blood Heal B1 100 0 0 3 50 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 1 Sabbath Master B1 100 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Blood 1 Sabbath Slave B1 100 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Blood 1 Reinvigoration B1 100 0 0 0 200 1 AN, NUW
Blood 1 Summon Imps B1 100 1 0 0 0 5 NUW
Imp x5 HP 8, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 22, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, FR +15, CR -5, Wpn: Claws
Blood 1 Blood Boil B1F1 50 25 0 100 11+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm
Blood 2 Banish Demon B1 100 30 0 100 Death 1 MR, UndIm, NUW
Blood 3 Leeching Touch B1 20 1 0 0 15+ 1 AN, InanimIm
Blood 4 Hellfire B1F2 100 25+ 3 0 9+ 2 AP, NUW
Blood 7 Leech B1 100 30 1 25 25+ 1 AN, InanimIm, NUW
Blood 8 Damage Reversal B1 100 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Blood 6 Soul Transaction B1G1 100 20 0 100 0 1 AN, MR+, MindIm, NUW
130
[[page 131]]
Blood 2 Agony B2 100 40 4+ 2 1 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 3 Pain Transfer B2 20 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Blood 4 Blood Lust B2 100 0 BF 0 0 1 UndIm, NUW
Blood 4 Call Lesser Horror B2S2 200 5 0 -2 0 1 NUW
Tainted Soul x1 HP 5, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 18, Def 18, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, SS, Float, Eth,
Spi, Magic, Mind, Amph, NNEat, Magic Power 1, PR +15, SpSi, Void Sanity 20, Wpn: Life
Draining Flare
Blood 5 Hellbind Heart B2 100 30 0 100 0 1 AN, MR, MindIm, NUW
Blood 5 Summon Illearth B2E2 200 1 0 0 0 1 NUW
Illearth x1 HP 93, Prot 12, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 22, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 0, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, NNEat, Reconstruction 9%, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crystal Fist,
Crystal Fist
Blood 6 Harm B2 100 50 4+ 5 2+ 1 AN, MR, InanimIm, NUW
Blood 2 Hell Power B3 300 0 0 0 0 1 NUW
Blood 6 Blood Rain B3 300 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Blood 6 Call Horror B3S3 300 5 0 -2 0 1 NUW
Mind Slime Horror x1 HP 28, Prot 10, MR 20, Mor 30, Str 14, Att 18, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, Float, Eth,
Spi, Magic, Amph, NNEat, Reinvig 2, Magic Power 1, SR +15, PR +15, Fear +10, SpSi, Damage
Reversal 2 vs MR, Void Sanity 20, Invisibility, Mag: S5, Wpn: Weakness Tentacle, Weakness
Tentacle, Weakness Tentacle, Weakness Tentacle, Weakness Tentacle
Blood 8 Rush of Strength B3 100 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Blood 8 Life for a Life B3 199 100 0 100 40+ 1 AN, InanimIm, NUW
Blood 8 Infernal Prison B3F1 200 35 0 100 0 1 AN, NUW
Blood 8 Claws of Kokytos B3W1 200 35 0 100 0 1 AN, NUW
Blood 5 Bloodletting B4 400 0 BF 0 1 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 7 Purify Blood B4N1 300 0 BF 0 0 1 NUW
Priest Spells
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Div 0 Blessing H1 0 15+ 5+ 100 0 1
Div 0 Banishment H1 0 25+ 4+ 0 4+ 1 AN, MR, Restriction
Non-specialized God
Div 0 Ashes to Ashes H1 0 25+ 4+ 0 4+ 1 AN, MR
Div 0 Purifying Water H1 0 25+ 6+ 0 2+ 1 AN, MR, Restriction Water
God
Div 0 Pull from the Grave H1 0 25+ 4+ 0 4+ 1 AN, MR, Restriction Earth
God
Div 0 Sacred Wind H1 0 30+ 15+ 0 1 1 AN, MR, Restriction Air
God
Div 0 Final Rest H1 0 25+ 2+ 0 Death 1 AN, MR-, Restriction
Nature God
Div 0 Decree of the Underworld H1 0 25+ 4+ 0 4+ 1 AN, MR, Restriction Death
God
Div 0 Stellar Decree H1 0 35+ 8+ 0 2+ 1 AN, MR, Restriction Astral
God
131
[[page 132]]
Div 0 Return of the Past H1 0 30+ 8+ 0 2+ 1 AN, MR, Restriction
Glamour God
Div 0 Sermon of Courage H2 0 25+ 10+ 100 1 1 AN
Div 0 Smite Demon H2 0 30+ 0 100 15+ 1 AN, MR, UndIm
Div 0 Holy Word H2 0 25 0 100 100 1 MR
Div 0 Holy Avenger H2 0 0 0 0 0 1
Div 0 Divine Blessing H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1
Div 0 Smite H3 0 30 0 100 10 1 AN, MR, Restriction
Non-specialized God
Div 0 Heavenly Fire H3 0 30 0 100 10 1 AN, MR
Div 0 Watery Death H3 0 25 0 100 10 1 AN, MR, Restriction Water
God
Div 0 Word of Stone H3 0 25 0 100 10 1 AN, MR, Restriction Earth
God
Div 0 Heavenly Strike H3 0 50 0 100 10 1 AN, MR, Restriction Air
God
Div 0 Word of Power H3 0 100 0 100 10 1 AN, MR, Restriction Astral
God
Div 0 Syllable of Death H3 0 25 0 100 10 1 AN, MR, Restriction Death
God
Div 0 Word of Thorns H3 0 30 0 100 5 1 AN, MR, Restriction Nature
God
Div 0 Word of Bewilderment H3 0 30 0 100 10 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
Restriction Glamour God
Div 0 Claim Life H3 0 30 0 100 20 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
Restriction Blood God
Div 0 Fanaticism H4 0 0 BF 0 1 1 AN
Div 0 Divine Channeling H5 90 0 0 0 0 1 BE
National Spells: Arcoscephale (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
National Spells: Mekone (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
132
[[page 133]]
National Spells: Pangaea (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 0 Tune of Fear N1 5 0 25 0 0 1 AN, MindIm, NUW
Ench 0 Tune of Growth N1 5 0 25 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 0 Tune of Dancing Death N1 5 0 25 0 31+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm, NUW
National Spells: Sauromatia (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Conj 1 Call Ancestor D1 20 1 0 0 0 1
Ancestral Spirit x1 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 18, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Paralyze
Conj 7 Wrath of the Ancestors D1 100 1 0 0 0 20+
Ancestral Spirit x20+ HP 1, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 18, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Paralyze
Ench 3 Awaken Tattoos N1H1 20 20+ 5+ 100 0 1
National Spells: Fomoria (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Conj 8 Dance of the Morrigans D5A2 400 0 0 0 0 1 BE, NUW
Thau 3 Geas G2 20 25 0 100 0 1 MR+, MindIm
Ench 7 Curse of Balor G3D1 100 20 11+ 100 0 1 MR
National Spells: Tir na n'Og (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 3 Geas G2 20 25 0 100 0 1 MR+, MindIm
National Spells: Marverni (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 3 Awaken Tattoos N1H1 20 20+ 5+ 100 0 1
National Spells: Agartha (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 5 Liquid Flames of Rhuax F3E1 20 30+ 1 0 24+ 1 AP, NUW
National Spells: Abysia (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 5 Inner Furnace F3 100 0 BF 0 0 1 MindIm, NUW
Evo 5 Liquid Flames of Rhuax F3E1 20 30+ 1 0 24+ 1 AP, NUW
National Spells: Ubar (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 6 Smokeless Flame F3A1 30 35+ 1 1 45+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 4 Scorching Wind A2F1 30 40 6+ 0 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
National Spells: Kailasa (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 6 Celestial Music S3 100 1 BF 0 0 1 NUW
133
[[page 134]]
National Spells: T'ien Ch'i (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 5 Celestial Chastisement S3 20 20 0 100 8+ 1 AN
Conj 1 Call Ancestor D1 20 1 0 0 0 1
Ancestral Spirit x1 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 18, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Paralyze
Conj 7 Wrath of the Ancestors D1 100 1 0 0 0 20+
Ancestral Spirit x20+ HP 1, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 18, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Paralyze
National Spells: Yomi (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Alt 6 End of Weakness E2 100 0 BF 0 0 1 UndIm, NUW
National Spells: Caelum (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 6 Parting of the Soul D1A1 40 30 0 100 15+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm
National Spells: Xibalba (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 2 Break the Third Soul A1 20 30 0 5 20+ 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Third Soul A1 20 20 0 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 2 Break the Second Soul E1 20 30 0 5 0 1 Mun, AN, NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Second Soul E1 20 20 0 0 0 1 Mun
Thau 2 Break the Fourth Soul D1 20 30 0 5 0 1 Mun, AN, NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Fourth Soul D1 20 20 0 2 0 1 Mun
Blood 2 Break the First Soul B1 20 30 0 5 0 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 3 Gift of the First Soul B1 20 20 0 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
National Spells: Vanheim (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Conj 6 Summon Valkyries A3D1 100 1 0 0 0 7 NUW
Valkyrie x7 HP 12, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 20, Fly,
Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Wpn: Light Lance
National Spells: Helheim (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Conj 6 Summon Valkyries A3D1 100 1 0 0 0 7 NUW
Valkyrie x7 HP 12, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 20, Fly,
Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Wpn: Light Lance
National Spells: Therodos (age 1)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
134
[[page 135]]
National Spells: Arcoscephale (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
National Spells: Phlegra (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
National Spells: Pangaea (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 0 Tune of Fear N1 5 0 25 0 0 1 AN, MindIm, NUW
Ench 0 Tune of Growth N1 5 0 25 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 0 Tune of Dancing Death N1 5 0 25 0 31+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm, NUW
National Spells: Asphodel (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Conj 3 Sleep Vines N1G1 20 20 1 2 0 1
Conj 4 Vengeful Vines N1D1 20 20 1 2 0 1
Ench 0 Quick Roots H1 0 30+ 1+ 100 0 1 AN
Ench 0 Regrowth H2 0 30+ 2+ 100 0 1 AN
Ench 0 Mend the Dead H2 0 25+ 0 100 40+ 1 AN
Ench 0 Puppet Mastery H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1 AN, MR
Ench 0 Carrion Growth H4 0 0 BF 100 0 1 AN, MR-
National Spells: Ermor (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Div 0 Unholy Command H1 0 10 0 0 0 1 AN, MR-
Div 0 Unholy Protection H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Power H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Protection H2 0 10 10 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H2 0 10 10 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Power H3 0 10 5 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1
Div 0 Protection of the Sepulchre H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1 MR-
Div 0 Power of the Sepulchre H4 0 0 BF 0 0 1
135
[[page 136]]
National Spells: Sceleria (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Div 0 Unholy Command H1 0 10 0 0 0 1 AN, MR-
Div 0 Unholy Protection H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Power H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Protection H2 0 10 10 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H2 0 10 10 100 0 1
Div 0 Apostasy H3 0 50 0 100 0 1 MR-
Div 0 Unholy Power H3 0 10 5 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1
Div 0 Protection of the Sepulchre H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1 MR-
Div 0 Power of the Sepulchre H4 0 0 BF 0 0 1
National Spells: Man (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 1 Chorus Master G1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Thau 1 Chorus Slave G1 20 0 0 0 0 1
Thau 3 Geas G2 20 25 0 100 0 1 MR+, MindIm
National Spells: Eriu (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 3 Geas G2 20 25 0 100 0 1 MR+, MindIm
National Spells: Ulm (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 3 Iron Darts E1H1 10 40 0 5 13 3+ AP, NUW
Evo 6 Iron Blizzard E1H1 50 30 0 3 10 20+ AP, NUW
Thau 5 Tempering the Will E3 20 0 BF 100 0 1 MR-, MindIm
National Spells: Marignon (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 4 Holy Pyre F2 20 40+ 23+ 1 7+ 1 AP, NUW
National Spells: Abysia (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 5 Inner Furnace F3 100 0 BF 0 0 1 MindIm, NUW
Evo 5 Liquid Flames of Rhuax F3E1 20 30+ 1 0 24+ 1 AP, NUW
National Spells: Ashdod (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 4 Strange Fire S2F1 20 40+ 3 1 8+ 1 AP, NUW
136
[[page 137]]
National Spells: Na'Ba (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 6 Smokeless Flame F3A1 30 35+ 1 1 45+ 1 AP, NUW
Evo 4 Scorching Wind A2F1 30 40 6+ 0 0 1 AN, MR, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
National Spells: Bandar Log (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 6 Celestial Music S3 100 1 BF 0 0 1 NUW
National Spells: T'ien Ch'i (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 5 Celestial Chastisement S3 20 20 0 100 8+ 1 AN
National Spells: Caelum (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 6 Parting of the Soul D1A1 40 30 0 100 15+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm
National Spells: Xibalba (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 2 Break the Third Soul A1 20 30 0 5 20+ 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Third Soul A1 20 20 0 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 2 Break the Second Soul E1 20 30 0 5 0 1 Mun, AN, NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Second Soul E1 20 20 0 0 0 1 Mun
Thau 2 Break the Fourth Soul D1 20 30 0 5 0 1 Mun, AN, NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Fourth Soul D1 20 20 0 2 0 1 Mun
Blood 2 Break the First Soul B1 20 30 0 5 0 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 3 Gift of the First Soul B1 20 20 0 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
National Spells: Phaeacia (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
National Spells: Vanheim (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Conj 6 Summon Valkyries A3D1 100 1 0 0 0 7 NUW
Valkyrie x7 HP 12, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 20, Fly,
Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Wpn: Light Lance
137
[[page 138]]
National Spells: Ys (age 2)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 3 Geas G2 20 25 0 100 0 1 MR+, MindIm
National Spells: Arcoscephale (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
Thau 3 Rhapsody of the Dead D1 20 15+ 4+ 0 4+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm, NUW
Thau 3 Rhapsody of Life N1 20 15+ 0 5 10+ 1 AN, InanimIm, MindIm,
NUW
National Spells: Phlegra (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
National Spells: Pangaea (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 0 Tune of Fear N1 5 0 25 0 0 1 AN, MindIm, NUW
Ench 0 Tune of Growth N1 5 0 25 0 0 1 NUW
Ench 0 Tune of Dancing Death N1 5 0 25 0 31+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm, NUW
National Spells: Pythium (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 2 Gift of the Sacred Swamp N1H1 20 15 5+ 0 0 1
National Spells: Lemuria (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Div 0 Unholy Command H1 0 10 0 0 0 1 AN, MR-
Div 0 Unholy Protection H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Power H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Anathema H2 0 50 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Protection H2 0 10 10 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H2 0 10 10 100 0 1
Div 0 Apostasy H3 0 50 0 100 0 1 MR-
Div 0 Unholy Power H3 0 10 5 100 0 1
Div 0 Unholy Blessing H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1
Div 0 Protection of the H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1 MR-
Shadelands
Div 0 Power of the Shadelands H4 0 0 BF 0 0 1
138
[[page 139]]
National Spells: Ulm (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 3 Iron Darts E1H1 10 40 0 5 13 3+ AP, NUW
Evo 6 Iron Blizzard E1H1 50 30 0 3 10 20+ AP, NUW
Thau 5 Tempering the Will E3 20 0 BF 100 0 1 MR-, MindIm
Ench 4 Gift of the Moon S1 20 30+ 1 100 0 1 Anim
National Spells: Agartha (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Alt 5 Iron Marionettes E3 100 30 25 100 0 1
National Spells: Marignon (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 4 Holy Pyre F2 20 40+ 23+ 1 7+ 1 AP, NUW
National Spells: Abysia (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 5 Inner Furnace F3 100 0 BF 0 0 1 MindIm, NUW
Evo 5 Liquid Flames of Rhuax F3E1 20 30+ 1 0 24+ 1 AP, NUW
National Spells: Ragha (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 6 Parting of the Soul D1A1 40 30 0 100 15+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm
National Spells: Caelum (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 6 Parting of the Soul D1A1 40 30 0 100 15+ 1 AN, MR, MindIm
National Spells: Gath (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 4 Strange Fire S2F1 20 40+ 3 1 8+ 1 AP, NUW
National Spells: T'ien Ch'i (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Evo 5 Celestial Chastisement S3 20 20 0 100 8+ 1 AN
Conj 1 Call Ancestor D1 20 1 0 0 0 1
Ancestral Spirit x1 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 18, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Paralyze
Conj 7 Wrath of the Ancestors D1 100 1 0 0 0 20+
Ancestral Spirit x20+ HP 1, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 18, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Paralyze
National Spells: Jomon (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Div 0 Teaching Sign H1N1 0 0 0 0 0 1
Div 0 Fear-not Sign H1A1 0 15 2+ 100 0 1
Div 0 Welcome Sign H1F1 0 5 0 100 0 1 MR-
Div 0 Earth-touching Sign H1E1 0 20 0 100 Death 1 AN, MR-, UndIm
Div 0 Meditation Sign H1W1 0 0 0 0 15 1
139
[[page 140]]
National Spells: Xibalba (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Thau 2 Break the Third Soul A1 20 30 0 5 20+ 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Third Soul A1 20 20 0 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
Thau 2 Break the Second Soul E1 20 30 0 5 0 1 Mun, AN, NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Second Soul E1 20 20 0 0 0 1 Mun
Thau 2 Break the Fourth Soul D1 20 30 0 5 0 1 Mun, AN, NUW
Thau 3 Gift of the Fourth Soul D1 20 20 0 2 0 1 Mun
Blood 2 Break the First Soul B1 20 30 0 5 0 1 AN, UndIm, InanimIm,
NUW
Blood 3 Gift of the First Soul B1 20 20 0 0 0 1 UndIm, InanimIm
National Spells: C'tis (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Div 0 Protection of the Grave H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Power of the Grave H1 0 20 1 100 0 1
Div 0 Protection of the Grave H2 0 10 10 100 0 1
Div 0 Royal Power H3 0 10 5 100 0 1
Div 0 Royal Protection H3 0 0 BF 100 0 1 MR-
Div 0 Power of the Reborn King H4 0 0 BF 0 0 1
National Spells: Midgård (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Conj 6 Summon Valkyries A3D1 100 1 0 0 0 7 NUW
Valkyrie x7 HP 12, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 20, Fly,
Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Wpn: Light Lance
National Spells: Erytheia (age 3)
School Spell Name Path Fat Rng AoE Pre Dmg NoE Special
Ench 6 Sow Dragon Teeth E2 100 1 0 0 0 10 NUW
Spartae x10 HP 8, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Golden Spear
140
[[page 141]]
Summoning Rituals
The following spells summon one or more creatures as their
main effect. The important statistics for each creature are
listed, along with the path, school, and gem requirements for
each spell, as well as any special information. All of these
spells are rituals. Spells that summon creatures during battle
are not rituals and are listed under Battlefield Spells. The
section entitled "Nationals" means that the spells listed can
only be cast by the indicated nation. Spells which are
available to more than one nation are repeated under each
nation.
Fire Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Bind Scorpion Beast F1E1 2 - - NUW
Scorpion Beast x1 HP 44, Prot 16, MR 5, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 3, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 10, WS, PR +15, DV
100, Wpn: Pincer, Pincer, Scorpion Tail
Ench 4 Terracotta Army F1E1 9 - -
Terracotta Soldier x15+ HP 7, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, FR +20, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Pike
Conj 2 Summon Fire Ants F2N1 9 - - NUW
Fire Ant x10+ HP 21, Prot 14, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 14, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 4, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, WS, Magic,
Mind, NNEat, Stealth 40, PR +15, Wpn: Sting
Conj 4 Summon Fire Drake F2 6 - - NUW
Fire Drake x1 HP 28, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 10, WS, FR +15,
Wpn: Bite, Drake Fire
141
key meaning
School school of magic
Alt / Conj Alteration / Conjuration
Const / Ench Construction / Enchantment
Thaum / Blood Thaumaturgy / Blood magic
Cost Gems required for casting. The type of gem
matches the primary path
Rng Range in number of provinces. No range
means it takes effect where it is casted.
Dmg Damage
HP Hit Points
Str Strength
Att / Def Attack / Defence
Mor Morale
MR Magic resistance
Pre Precision
Enc Encumbrance
Mv Movement
MM Map Move
TM Task Master
Amph / Pamph Amphibian / Poor Amphibian
Aqua Aquatic
NNEat Need Not Eat
Und / Mind Undead / Mindless
Spi / Illu / Eth Spirit Form / Illusion / Ethereal
SpSi / TrSi / DV Spirit Sight / True Sight / Darkvision
Magic Magic Being
Inanim Inanimate Being
AP / AN Armor-Piercing / Armor-Negating
FS / MS / SS / WS Forest/Mountain/Swamp/Waste Survival
SlR / PiR / BlR Slash/Pierce/Blunt Resistant
CR / FR / PR / SR Cold/Fire/Poison/Shock Resistance
Mag Magic paths for spell casting commanders
[[page 142]]
Conj 4 Summon Flame Jellies F2 6 - - UW
Flame Jelly x10+ HP 25, Prot 0, MR 20, Mor 50, Str 7, Att 5, Def 5, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 4, MM 10, Float, Magic,
Mind, Aqua, NNEat, BlR, PiR, FR +15, PR +15, Wpn: Flame Sting Tentacles
Conj 6 Summon Fire Snakes F2 8 - - NUW
Fire Snake x10+ HP 25, Prot 9, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 12, WS, Magic,
Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +15, Heat 3, Wpn: Fire Flare, Venomous Fangs
Conj 5 Summon Summer Lions F3 13 - - NUW
Summer Lion x5+ HP 44, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 17, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, WS, Eth, Spi,
Magic, Mind, NNEat, FR +50, PR +15, SpSi, Heat 3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 6 Summon Flame Spirit F3 30 - - NUW
Flame Spirit x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Float, Eth,
Spi, Magic, NNEat, Heat pow 1, FR +50, CR -10, PR +15, SpSi, Heat 4, Fire Shield 10 AP dmg,
Retinue 1d6 Will o' the Wisps, Ldr 80, MagLdr 40, Mag: F3, Wpn: Flame Strike
Cnst 6 Iron Gryphon F3E1 6 - - NUW
Iron Gryphon x1 HP 50, Prot 24, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 20, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 15, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Cone of
Flames
Conj 8 King of Elemental Fire F5 50 - - NUW
King of Magma (x1) HP 87, Prot 9, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 23, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 16, Magic,
NNEat, Fire Elemental Empowerment 1, Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +15, SpSi, Heat 10, Fire Shield
12 AP dmg, Ldr 150, MagLdr 110, Mag: F5E1, Wpn: Flame Strike, Fist
Air Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 2 Corpse Man Construction A1D1 1 - - NUW
Corpse Construct x1 HP 25, Prot 0, MR 4, Mor 50, Str 15, Att 8, Def 5, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 18, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, Overcharged 1 AN capped dmg, Wpn: Fist
Conj 3 Call of the Winds A2 8 5 - NUW
Black Hawk x51 HP 5, Prot 0, MR 5, Mor 8, Str 5, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 22, FS, MS, Fly, Wpn:
Dive attack, Talons
Conj 3 Summon Amphiptere A2N1 3 - - NUW
Amphiptere x1 HP 45, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, Fly, PR +15,
Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Spray Poison
Conj 4 Summon Wyverns A2 3 - - NUW
Wyvern x2 HP 35, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 22, MS, WS,
Fly, SR +15, PR +15, Wpn: Bite, Barbed Tail
Conj 4 Summon Storm Drake A2 5 - - NUW
Storm Drake x1 HP 25, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 28, MS, WS,
Fly, SR +15, Wpn: Bite, Drake Lightning
Conj 4 Summon Gryphons A2 9 - - NUW
Gryphon x10+ HP 44, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 14, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 22, MS, WS,
Fly, Wpn: Talons, Talons, Beak
Conj 5 Summon Spring Hawks A3 13 - - NUW
Spring Hawk x5+ HP 7, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 6, Att 15, Def 15, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 34, MS, Fly, Eth, Spi,
Magic, Mind, NNEat, SR +15, PR +15, SpSi, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Lightning Swarm
Conj 5 Contact Draconians A3 20 - - NUW
Draconian Chief x1 HP 52, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 22, MS, Fly,
PR +15, Ldr 50, Wpn: Venomous Bite, Talons
142
[[page 143]]
Draconian x30 HP 45, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 22, MS, Fly, PR
+15, Wpn: Venomous Bite, Talons
Conj 6 Summon Great Eagles A3 8 - - NUW
Great Eagle x10+ HP 52, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 14, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 40, MS, Fly,
Siege Strength +10, Patrol 10, Wpn: Talons, Beak
Ench 5 Watcher A3E1 5 - -
Watcher x1 HP 75, Prot 20, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 20, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 25, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Patrol 50, Wpn: Lightning
Conj 8 Queen of Elemental Air A5 50 - - NUW
Queen of Clouds (x1) HP 45, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 14, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 13, Enc 0, CS 30, MM 40, Fly, Eth,
Glamour, Magic, NNEat, Air Elemental Empowerment 1, Storm Power 3, SR +15, PR +15, SpSi,
Ldr 100, MagLdr 100, Mag: A5, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning Swarm
Water Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 3 Claymen W1E1 7 - -
Clayman x10+ HP 15, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, Reconstruction 10%, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Hammer
Alt 6 Manifest Vitriol W2F1 3 - - NUW
Green Lion x1 HP 34, Prot 7, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 18, MM 22, Eth, Magic,
Mind, NNEat, FR +15, Acid Res +25, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Vitriol Breath
Conj 3 Summon Yetis W2A1 8 - - NUW
Yeti x5+ HP 46, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 22, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, MS, CR +25,
Chill 3, Wpn: Rock, Sticks and Stones
Conj 3 Summon Cave Cows W2E2 3 - - NUW
Cave Cow x10+ HP 32, Prot 4, MR 7, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 10, NNEat, DV 100,
Wpn: Bite, Corrosive Spit
Conj 4 Summon Ice Drake W2 7 - - NUW
Ice Drake x1 HP 41, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, CR +15, Wpn:
Bite, Drake Frost
Conj 4 Summon Sea Serpent W2 4 - - UW
Sea Serpent x1 HP 70, Prot 10, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 15, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 20, MM 16, Aqua, PR
+15, Fear +5, Wpn: Coral Horn, Venomous Fangs, Tail Sweep
Ench 4 Vile Water W2 2 - - NUW
Gelatinous Cube x1 HP 50, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 8, Def 5, Prec 0, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 10, Magic, Mind,
Trample, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 65, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, FR +15, Acid Res +10, CR +5, PR
+15, Acid Splash 12 AP dmg, Wpn: Acid Touch
Conj 3 Call Krakens W3 4 - - UW
Kraken x5+ HP 60, Prot 8, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 6, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 10, Recup, Aqua,
Stealth 60, BlR, DV 100, Wpn: Tentacle, Tentacle, Tentacle, Tentacle
Conj 5 Contact Sea Trolls W3 10 - -
Sea Troll x10+ HP 52, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Amph, NNEat,
Regen 10%, Acid Res -5, PR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Claw
Conj 5 Summon Winter Wolves W3 6 - - NUW
Winter Wolf x5+ HP 13, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 26, MM 22, MS, Eth, Spi,
Magic, Mind, NNEat, CR +25, PR +15, SpSi, Chill 6, Wpn: Frost Breath, Bite
143
[[page 144]]
Conj 5 Contact Naiad W3N1 35 - -
Naiad x1 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, Amph,
Stealth 40, Awe +6, Homesickness 10, Gift of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr
60, Mag: W3N3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 5 Naiad Warriors W3N1 18 - -
Kydnid x25 HP 10, Prot 15, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 14, Recup,
Amph, Awe +4, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Conj 6 Summon Bishop Fish W3 15 - - UW
Bishop Fish x1 HP 17, Prot 3, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 7, Def 5, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 8, Sacr, Aqua, DV 50,
Ldr 50, Mag: H3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 7 Summon Asp Turtle W3 10 - - UW
Asp Turtle x1 HP 91, Prot 22, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 25, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Trample,
Aqua, Fear +5, Wpn: Bite
Conj 7 Summon Catoblepas W3D2 12 - - NUW
Catoblepas x1 HP 75, Prot 8, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 24, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 10, SS, PR +25, Fear
+10, SpSi, Wpn: Hoof, Gore, Gaze of Death
Ench 6 Hidden in Snow W3D1 65 - - NUW
Unfrozen Lord x1 HP 30, Prot 11, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Und,
NNEat, PiR, Cold pow 1, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, Wpn: Bane Blade
Unfrozen Mage x1 HP 20, Prot 11, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Und,
NNEat, PiR, Cold pow 1, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 110, MagLdr 30, Mag:
D1?4, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Unfrozen Warrior x10 HP 28, Prot 11, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Und,
NNEat, PiR, Cold pow 1, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Flint Sword
Unfrozen x15 HP 25, Prot 11, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Und,
NNEat, PiR, Cold pow 1, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Stone Spear
Conj 6 Sea King's Court W4 55 - -
Sea King x1 HP 63, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Amph,
NNEat, Water Gems 1/month, Regen 15%, Acid Res -5, PR +15, DV 50, Gift of Water Breathing
120 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3, Wpn: Mace
Sea Troll x15 HP 52, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Amph, NNEat,
Regen 10%, Acid Res -5, PR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Claw
Troll Guard x5 HP 58, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 23, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 14, Amph,
NNEat, Regen 10%, Acid Res -5, PR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Glaive
Conj 6 Streams from Hades W4D1 40 - -
Kokythiad x1 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, Amph,
Stealth 40, Fear +5, DV 100, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 50, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 30, Mag:
W3D3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Queen of Elemental Water W5 50 - - UW
Queen of the Deeps (x1) HP 65, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 15, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 16, Recup,
Magic, Aqua, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Water Elemental Empowerment 1, CR +15, PR +15, SpSi, Ldr
100, MagLdr 100, Mag: W5, Wpn: Crush
Conj 9 Call Ancient Presence W5N4 15 - - NUW
Ancient Presence x1 HP 197, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 26, Att 16, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, SS, Und,
Magic, NNEat, BlR, PiR, Undead Regen 20%, FR -10, PR +25, Fear +10, Mag: W1N1?2, Wpn:
Devour, Steal Strength
144
[[page 145]]
Earth Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 1 Summon Cave Grubs E1 5 - - NUW
Cave Grub x10+ HP 52, Prot 6, MR 7, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 5, MM 10, Magic, NNEat,
Siege Strength +10, Wpn: Corrosive Bite
Conj 2 Summon Ogres E1 7 - - NUW
Ogre x5+ HP 26, Prot 11, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, MS, CR +5,
Wpn: Great Club
Conj 3 Summon Cave Crab E1W1 4 - -
Cave Crab x1 HP 54, Prot 22, MR 4, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 10, MM 16, Amph, DV
100, Wpn: Crab Claw
Conj 4 Summon Cave Drake E2 4 - - NUW
Cave Drake x1 HP 58, Prot 22, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 7, MM 10, MS, DV 50,
Wpn: Bite
Cnst 2 Clockwork Soldiers E2 4 - - NUW
Clockwork Soldier x10+ HP 7, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, Exhaustion 10 (max to 150), FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, DV
100, Wpn: Sword Hand
Cnst 4 Clockwork Horrors E2 9 - - NUW
Clockwork Horror x15+ HP 5, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 18, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, Exhaustion 10 (max to 150), FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, DV
100, Wpn: Blade Hand, Blade Hand
Cnst 6 Mechanical Men E2 15 - - NUW
Mechanical Man x15+ HP 8, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 22, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Broad Sword
Alt 6 Iron Pigs E3N1 9 - - NUW
Iron Pig x10+ HP 15, Prot 20, MR 5, Mor 8, Str 12, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 22, FS, Trample, SR
-5, Wpn: Bite
Conj 5 Summon Fall Bears E3 13 - - NUW
Fall Bear x5+ HP 53, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 19, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, FS, Eth, Spi,
Magic, Mind, NNEat, Regen 10%, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 5 Contact Trolls E3 10 - - NUW
Troll x5+ HP 35, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, MS, NNEat,
Regen 10%, FR -10, Acid Res -10, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club
Conj 6 Contact Hill Giant E3 3 - - NUW
Hill Giant x1 HP 106, Prot 12, MR 9, Mor 16, Str 28, Att 13, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 17, MM 22, MS, Wpn:
Grab and Swallow, Great Club
Cnst 4 Crusher Construction E3 10 - - NUW
Crusher x1 HP 110, Prot 24, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Stone Fist
Cnst 8 Siege Golem E3 15 - - NUW
Siege Golem x1 HP 165, Prot 24, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 30, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Siege Strength +100, Wpn:
Shatterfist, Shatterfist
Ench 5 Enliven Gargoyles E3A1 12 - -
Gargoyle x10+ HP 12, Prot 20, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 28, Fly, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Claw, Claw
145
[[page 146]]
Ench 6 Enliven Statues E3 20 - -
Living Statue x10+ HP 15, Prot 20, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Stone Spear
Ench 6 Hidden in Sand E3D1 65 - - NUW
Dust King x1 HP 30, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 22, WS, Sacr,
Und, NNEat, PiR, Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, Wpn: Kopesh
Dust Priest x1 HP 20, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 15, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, WS, Sacr,
Und, NNEat, PiR, Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Ldr 40, UndLdr 240, MagLdr 40,
Mag: E1D2H2?3, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Dust Warrior x10 HP 28, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 22, WS, Und,
NNEat, PiR, Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Wpn: Kopesh
Dust Walker x15 HP 25, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 22, WS, Und,
NNEat, PiR, Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Wpn: Spear
Ench 6 Hidden Underneath E3D1 65 - - NUW
Released King x1 HP 12, Prot 26, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 3, MM 19, Inanim,
Und, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Dark Power 2, FR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100,
Wpn: Fossilized Hatchet
Released Sage x1 HP 8, Prot 20, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 22, Inanim,
Und, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Dark Power 2, FR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 110,
MagLdr 50, Mag: E1D2?2, Wpn: Magic Sceptre
Released Warrior x10 HP 10, Prot 27, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 19, Inanim,
Und, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Ambidex 2, Dark Power 2, FR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn:
Fossilized Sword, Fossilized Hatchet
Released One x15 HP 8, Prot 27, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 3, MM 19, Inanim, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Dark Power 2, FR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Stone Spear
Conj 6 Troll King's Court E4 65 - - NUW
Troll King x1 HP 42, Prot 25, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, MS, NNEat,
Master Smith 1, Regen 15%, FR -10, Acid Res -10, DV 50, Ldr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: E3G1, Wpn:
Maul
Troll x10 HP 35, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, MS, NNEat,
Regen 10%, FR -10, Acid Res -10, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club
War Troll x5 HP 38, Prot 21, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 23, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 10, MS, NNEat,
Regen 10%, FR -10, DV 50, Wpn: Maul
Troll Moose Knight x2 HP 40, Prot 21, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 14, MM 10, FS, MS,
Regen 10%, FR -10, Acid Res -10, DV 50, Wpn: Morningstar, Mount: Moose
Cnst 8 Iron Dragon E4F2 25 - - NUW
Iron Dragon x1 HP 150, Prot 24, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 28, Fly, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Fire
Explosion on Death, Wpn: Bite, Tail Sweep, Dragon Fire
Conj 8 King of Elemental Earth E5 50 - -
King of Deeper Earth (x1) HP 130, Prot 15, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 27, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 16, MS, Magic,
PAmph, NNEat, Earth Gems 1/month, Earth Elemental Empowerment 1, Regen 10%, PR +15,
SpSi, Ldr 100, MagLdr 100, Mag: E5, Wpn: Fist
146
[[page 147]]
Astral Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 4 Telestic Animation S2 5 - -
Telestic Animate x1 HP 40, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Inanim,
Magic, Amph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, MagLdr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn:
Conj 5 Summon Ether Warriors S3D1 15 - -
Ether Warrior x3 HP 22, Prot 19, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Eth,
Magic, Amph, NNEat, Magic Power 1, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Wpn: Moon Blade
Cnst 6 Golem Construction S3E2 35 - -
Golem x1 HP 85, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, FR +15, PR +25, SpSi, MagLdr 40, Mag: S2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call the Eater of the Dead S4D4 50 - - NUW
Eater of the Dead (x1) HP 180, Prot 4, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 10, Def 4, Prec 4, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, Recup, Und,
Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, Undead Regen 10%, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Crush,
Steal Strength
Conj 9 Call Abomination S5W2 15 - -
Abomination x1 HP 266, Prot 5, MR 20, Mor 18, Str 20, Att 15, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 1, CS 6, MM 16, Magic, Amph,
NNEat, BlR, Regen 10%, PR +15, Fear +10, DV 100, SpSi, Void Sanity 20, Wpn: Life Drain
Tentacle, Life Drain Tentacle, Life Drain Tentacle, Gaze of Death
Cnst 8 Juggernaut Construction S5 25 - -
Juggernaut x1 HP 200, Prot 22, MR 18, Mor 50, Str 20, Att 5, Def 5, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 4, MM 10, Sacr, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Mag: H3, Wpn: Buff
Death Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Spirit Mastery D1 4 - -
Dispossessed Spirit x25+ HP 1, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 30, Str 1, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 18, Float, Eth, Spi,
Und, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Paralyze
Ench 1 Reanimation D1 3 - -
Longdead x10+ HP 5, Prot 8, MR 9, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 20, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Broad Sword
Ench 2 Revive King D1 3 - - NUW
Mound King x1 HP 7, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 20, Inanim,
Und, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount:
Skeletal Horse
Conj 1 Shadow Servant D2 5 - -
Shadow Servant x1 HP 18, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi, Und,
Amph, NNEat, Stealth 60, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 2 Summon Shades D2 5 - -
Shade x5+ HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Float, Eth,
Spi, Und, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, Dark Power 3, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Steal Strength
Conj 3 Revive Wights D2 20 - -
Wight x5 HP 20, Prot 19, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 16, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Bane Blade
Conj 3 Revive Bane D2 7 - -
Bane x1 HP 23, Prot 19, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 60, UndLdr 150, Wpn: Bane
Blade
147
[[page 148]]
Conj 6 Summon Ghosts D2 10 - -
Ghost x5+ HP 20, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Float, Eth,
Spi, Und, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Life Drain
Ench 3 Create Revenant D2 9 - - NUW
Revenant x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 18, Inanim, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 150, Mag: D1, Wpn: Fist
Ench 6 Reanimate Archers D2F1 5 - - NUW
Longdead Archer x10 HP 5, Prot 0, MR 9, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 22, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Fist, Banefire Bow
Alt 4 Arouse Hunger D3 8 3 - NUW
Ghoul x40+ HP 10, Prot 0, MR 8, Mor 18, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Und, NNEat,
PR +25, DV 50, Wpn: Poisoned Claw
Conj 4 Summon Shade Beasts D3 15 - -
Shade Beast x30+ HP 12, Prot 3, MR 12, Mor 30, Str 11, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 0, Enc 0, CS 18, MM 28, Eth, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, Dark Power 2, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Reanimating Bite
Conj 6 Summon Spectre D3 22 - -
Spectral Mage x1 HP 25, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 110,
MagLdr 10, Mag: D1?2, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 7 Summon Mound Fiend D3 28 - - NUW
Mound Fiend x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Sacr,
Und, PAmph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 290, Mag: D3H2,
Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 8 King of Banefires D3F4 50 - - NUW
King of Banefires (x1) HP 54, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 15, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 16, Eth, Und,
Magic, NNEat, FR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Heat 5, Banefire Shield 15 AP dmg, Ldr 140,
UndLdr 150, MagLdr 90, Mag: F4D3, Wpn: Banefire Strike, Fist
Ench 4 Behemoth D3 7 - - NUW
Behemoth x1 HP 104, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 30, Str 22, Att 7, Def 6, Prec 0, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Inanim, Und,
Trample, PAmph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Tusk
Ench 5 Pale Riders D3 10 - - NUW
Longdead Horseman x25+ HP 5, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 21, Inanim,
Und, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: Skeletal Horse
Ench 6 Ziz D3A2 2 - - NUW
Ziz x1 HP 78, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 13, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, Fly, Inanim,
Und, NNEat, SR +15, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 10, Siege Strength +10, Patrol 10,
Storm Immunity, Wpn: Beak, Talons
Ench 7 Carrion Reanimation D3 10 5 -
Soulless x200 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 5, Def 3, Prec 4, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 18, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, Wpn: Fist
Ench 7 Leviathan D3W1 10 - - UW
Leviathan x1 HP 143, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 30, Str 28, Att 6, Def 3, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 16, Inanim, Und,
Trample, Amph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +10, SpSi, Wpn: Bite
Conj 5 Revive Bane Lord D4 12 - -
Bane Lord x1 HP 42, Prot 20, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 19, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 90, UndLdr 200, Wpn: Bane
Blade
148
[[page 149]]
Conj 7 Harvester of Sorrows D4 20 - -
Harvester of Sorrows x1 HP 66, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 65, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +15, SpSi, Reaper 10, Wpn: Life Drain
Cnst 8 Poison Golem D4E2 35 - -
Poison Golem x1 HP 85, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Reaper 10, Banefire Shield 5 AP
dmg, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Wraith Lord D5 40 - -
Wraith Lord x1 HP 33, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 16, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 20, Eth, Spi,
Und, Amph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 100, UndLdr 300, Mag: D3, Wpn:
Bane Blade
Conj 9 Ghost Riders D5 5 4 - Anon
Longdead Horseman x75 HP 5, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 21, Inanim,
Und, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: Skeletal Horse
Conj 9 Legion of Wights D5 20 - - NUW
Wight x17+ HP 20, Prot 19, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 16, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Bane Blade
Ench 9 Army of the Dead D5 10 5 -
Longdead x100+ HP 5, Prot 0, MR 9, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 22, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spear
Soulless x150 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 5, Def 3, Prec 4, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 18, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, Wpn: Fist
Nature Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 1 Summon Sea Dogs N1W1 2 - -
Sea Dog x10+ HP 14, Prot 7, MR 6, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Amph, Wpn:
Bite
Conj 1 Summon Crocodiles N1W1 4 - - NUW
Crocodile x10+ HP 23, Prot 12, MR 5, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 10, SS, Wpn: Bite
Conj 2 Awaken Vine Men N1 1 - - NUW
Vine Man x4 HP 17, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Magic, Mind,
PAmph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, Wpn: Fist, Fist
Conj 2 Awaken Algae Men N1 1 - - UW
Algae Man x4 HP 12, Prot 14, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Magic, Mind,
Amph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, Wpn: Fist, Fist
Conj 2 Pack of Wolves N1 2 - - NUW
Wolf x15+ HP 8, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
40, Wpn: Bite
Conj 2 Summon Horned Serpents N1 4 - - NUW
Horned Serpent x10+ HP 29, Prot 11, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 14, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 12, WS, Stealth
40, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Cnst 2 Construct Manikin N1D1 7 - - NUW
Manikin x16+ HP 12, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 11, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, FS, Recup,
Inanim, Und, Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +5, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Sleep Vines, Claw
Conj 1 Summon Animals N2 10 - -
Wolf x30+ HP 8, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
40, Wpn: Bite
149
[[page 150]]
Conj 2 Summon Killer Mantis N2 5 - - NUW
Killer Mantis x10+ HP 18, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 14, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 4, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Magic,
Mind, NNEat, Stealth 40, PR +15, Wpn: Mantis Claw, Mantis Claw
Conj 3 Pride of Lions N2 9 - - NUW
Great Lion x15+ HP 20, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, DV 50, Wpn:
Bite, Claw
Conj 3 Summon Sea Lions N2W1 10 - - UW
Leocampus x16+ HP 27, Prot 5, MR 6, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 22, Aqua, Wpn:
Bite, Claw, Tail Flipper
Conj 3 Summon Bog Beasts N2W2 5 - - NUW
Bog Beast x5+ HP 32, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 10, SS, PR +25,
Wpn: Venomous Bite, Poison Spit
Conj 4 Summon Spine Frog N2W1 1 - - NUW
Spine Frog x1 HP 41, Prot 7, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, SS, PR +15,
Wpn: Gobble, Poison Spit
Conj 4 Summon Leogryphs N2 12 - - NUW
Leogryph x20+ HP 23, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 14, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 22, Wpn: Bite,
Claw
Conj 4 Summon Swamp Drake N2W1 5 - - NUW
Swamp Drake x1 HP 44, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, SS, PR +15,
Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn: Venomous Bite, Drake Gas
Conj 5 Summon Manticores N2E2 10 - - NUW
Manticore x3 HP 62, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 20, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 28, MS, WS,
Fly, PR +15, Fear +5, Wpn: Stinger, Claw, Claw, Flick Barbs
Cnst 4 Construct Mandragora N2D1 10 - - NUW
Mandragora x10+ HP 25, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 15, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, FS, Recup,
Inanim, Und, Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +5, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Sleep Vines, Sleep
Vines, Claw
Conj 4 Awaken Vine Ogres N3 3 - - NUW
Vine Ogre x3 HP 55, Prot 9, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 18, Att 12, Def 5, Prec 4, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, Wpn: Fist, Fist
Conj 4 Summon Kithaironic Lion N3E1 5 - - NUW
Kithaironic Lion x1 HP 31, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 22, MM 22, FS, Magic,
SlR, PiR, DV 50, Invulnerability 25, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 5 Spirits of the Wood N3 8 - - NUW
Woodland Spirit x15+ HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Eth,
Recup, NNEat, Stealth 40, Regen 20%, PR +15, Awe +4, SpSi, Homesickness 40, Wpn: Steal
Strength
Conj 5 Contact Forest Trolls N3 10 - - NUW
Forest Troll x10+ HP 26, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 19, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, NNEat,
Regen 10%, FR -5, Acid Res -5, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club
Conj 6 Forest Troll Tribe N3 37 - - NUW
Troll Shaman x1 HP 26, Prot 11, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 19, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, NNEat,
Regen 10%, FR -5, Acid Res -5, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: D1N1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Forest Troll x15 HP 26, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 19, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, NNEat,
Regen 10%, FR -5, Acid Res -5, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club
150
[[page 151]]
Conj 6 Contact Forest Giants N3 2 - - NUW
Forest Giant x2 HP 66, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 15, Str 24, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 22, FS, Wpn:
Great Club
Conj 6 Contact Lamias N3 5 - - NUW
Lamia x10+ HP 14, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, SS, Regen
50%, PR +15, Wpn: Claw, Life Drain
Cnst 4 Wooden Construction N3 6 - - NUW
Lumber Construct x4 HP 70, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 20, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 22, Inanim, Magic,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Fist
Conj 3 Call of the Wild N4 9 4 - NUW
Wolf x40 HP 8, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
40, Wpn: Bite
Conj 7 Animal Horde N4 10 - - NUW
Wolf x100 HP 8, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
40, Wpn: Bite
Conj 7 Awaken Ivy King N4 30 - - NUW
Ivy King x1 HP 63, Prot 7, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 19, Att 13, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Magic,
PAmph, NNEat, BlR, PiR, Awaken Vine Men Bonus 3, Growth Power 1, PR +15, Animal Awe +5,
Ldr 50, MagLdr 80, Mag: N3, Wpn: Fist, Fist
Conj 6 Contact Lamia Queen N5D2 25 - - NUW
Lamia Queen x1 HP 15, Prot 6, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, SS,
Regen 50%, PR +15, Ldr 50, UndLdr 110, MagLdr 30, Mag: D2N1?2, Wpn: Oath Rod
Conj 7 Summon Calydonian Boar N5 9 - - NUW
Calydonian Boar x1 HP 58, Prot 14, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 22, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 20, MM 22, FS,
Trample, FR +25, SR +15, Fear +5, Heat 3, Wpn: Lightning Tusk, Flaming Breath
Conj 9 Awaken Tarrasque N5 15 - - NUW
Tarrasque x1 HP 245, Prot 19, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 27, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, SS, Recup,
Regen 10%, PR +25, Fear +10, Wpn: Sharpest Bite, Claw, Tail Sweep, Dragon Gas
Ench 7 Awaken Treelord N5 35 4 - NUW
Treelord (x1) HP 250, Prot 20, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 14, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, NNEat, BlR,
PiR, Awaken Vine Men Bonus 3, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 2d6 Great Boars, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 50, Mag: E1N4, Wpn: Branch, Branch, Branch
Thau 8 Call the Worm That Walks N5 30 - -
Worm Mage x1 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 16, FS, Recup,
Amph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, Reinvig 2, Regen 10%, PR +5, Invulnerability 15, Swarm Body, Disease
Explosion on Death, Battle Summoner 0-4 Large Beetles, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: N3, Wpn:
Fist
Glamour Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Summon Water Kobold G1W1 12 - - NUW
Water Kobold x1 HP 5, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 12, Glamour, Recup,
Magic, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 65, TrSi, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W1G1,
Wpn: Fist
Conj 4 Summon Cave Kobolds G1E1 5 - - NUW
Cave Kobold x5+ HP 6, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 12, MS, Glamour,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 65, DV 100, TrSi, Siege Strength +10, Mine Resource Bonus 5, Mag:
E1G1, Wpn: Enchanted Pick Axe
151
[[page 152]]
Conj 3 Summon Fay Folk G2N1 5 - - NUW
Fay Folk x10 HP 8, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Glamour,
Recup, NNEat, PR +5, TrSi, Wpn: Fancy Sword
Conj 4 Summon Fay Footfolk G2N1 12 - - NUW
Fay Footman x5+ HP 13, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 20, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 11, MM 16, FS,
Glamour, Recup, NNEat, PR +10, TrSi, Wpn: Fay Blade
Conj 5 Summon Bluecap G2E1 20 - - NUW
Bluecap x1 HP 7, Prot 9, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 12, MS, Glamour,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 65, DV 100, TrSi, Siege Strength +10, Mine Resource Bonus 25, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 40, Mag: E2G1, Wpn: Enchanted Pick Axe
Conj 5 Summon Fay Knights G3N1 15 - - NUW
Fay Knight x3 HP 16, Prot 21, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 22, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 10, FS,
Glamour, Recup, NNEat, PR +10, TrSi, Rider 3, Wpn: Fay Lance, Fay Blade, Mount: Fay Steed
Conj 6 Summon Gnome G3E2 35 - - NUW
Gnome x1 HP 6, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 12, FS, Glamour, NNEat,
Stealth 65, Ldr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag: E2N2G2, Wpn: Slap
Evo 7 Illusory Attack G4 8 4 - Anon
Warrior Illusion x55+ HP 1, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Illu,
Inanim, Mind, Amph, NNEat, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Weapon
Archer Illusion x40 HP 1, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Illu,
Inanim, Mind, Amph, NNEat, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Phantasmal Weapon, Phantasmal Bow
Conj 5 Awaken Sleeper G4 10 - - NUW
Sleeper x1 HP 26, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 15, Def 19, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Recup,
Inspirational +1, Ldr 150, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 100, Wpn: Enchanted Spear, Javelin of Flight
Conj 6 Summon Fay Prince G4N1 30 - - NUW
Fay Prince x1 HP 18, Prot 16, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 14, Def 23, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 10, FS,
Glamour, Recup, NNEat, PR +10, Awe +3, TrSi, Rider 4, Ldr 150, MagLdr 30, Mag: N1G2, Wpn:
Fay Lance, Fay Blade, Mount: Royal Fay Steed
Conj 8 Faerie Court G4N1 60 - - NUW
Faery Queen x1 HP 18, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, FS, Fly,
Glamour, Recup, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 65, Disease Healing 1, Awe +4, TrSi, Retinue 2d6
Sprites, Ldr 50, MagLdr 130, Mag: N3G3?2, Wpn: Fist
Sprite x10 HP 2, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 3, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 22, FS, SS, Fly,
Glamour, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 65, TrSi, Wpn: Fist, Elf Shot
Fay Folk x10 HP 8, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 8, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Glamour,
Recup, NNEat, PR +5, TrSi, Wpn: Bronze Dagger, Short Bow
Fay Footman x3 HP 13, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 20, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 11, MM 16, FS,
Glamour, Recup, NNEat, PR +10, TrSi, Wpn: Fay Blade
Fay Knight x2 HP 16, Prot 21, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 22, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 10, FS,
Glamour, Recup, NNEat, PR +10, TrSi, Rider 3, Wpn: Fay Lance, Fay Blade, Mount: Fay Steed
152
[[page 153]]
Blood Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 1 Bind Shadow Imp B1 4 - - NUW
Shadow Imp x1 HP 7, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 16, Demon, NNEat,
Stealth 60, Dark Power 2, Wpn: Pitchfork
Blood 1 Bind Fiery Imps B1F1 5 - - NUW
Fiery Imp x5+ HP 7, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 16, Demon, NNEat,
FR +15, CR -5, Fire Shield 6 AP dmg, Wpn: Pitchfork, Throw Flames
Blood 2 Bind Bone Fiends B1D1 5 - - NUW
Bone Fiend x5+ HP 15, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Inanim, Und,
Mind, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Blood 4 Bind Serpent Fiends B1 4 - - NUW
Serpent Fiend x3 HP 22, Prot 8, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, SS, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 5 Awaken Dark Vines B1N3 12 - - NUW
Dark Vines x2 HP 126, Prot 9, MR 15, Mor 50, Str 19, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 0, Enc 0, CS 4, MM 10, FS, Magic,
Mind, NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, Wpn: Tentacle, Tentacle, Tentacle
Blood 2 Bind Spine Devil B2 2 - - NUW
Spine Devil x1 HP 25, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, Demon,
NNEat, Poison Barbs 8 AN dmg, Wpn: Venomous Claw, Venomous Claw
Blood 2 Bind Fiend B2 3 - - NUW
Fiend of Darkness x1 HP 30, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 24, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Dark Power 2, Wpn: Venomous Claw, Venomous Claw
Blood 3 Bind Devil B2F2 5 - - NUW
Devil x1 HP 35, Prot 8, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, FR +25, CR -5, Heat 3, Wpn: Trident, Barbed Tail
Blood 3 Bind Frost Fiend B2W2 7 - - NUW
Frost Fiend x1 HP 25, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Cold pow 1, FR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 1, Chill 3, Wpn: Ice Rod, Frost Blast
Blood 4 Bind Storm Demon B2A2 10 - - NUW
Storm Demon x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 34, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Storm Power 3, SR +15, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning
Blood 5 Bind Demon Knight B2E2 15 - - NUW
Demon Knight x1 HP 20, Prot 22, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 14, Demon,
NNEat, FR +15, Fear +5, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Demon Steed
Blood 6 Blood Rite B2D2 11 - - NUW
Vampire x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Und,
NNEat, Stealth 40, BlR, SlR, Undead Regen 10%, FR -5, CR +15, PR +25, DV 100, Invulnerability
25, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 5 Send Lesser Horror B3S3 14 4 - NUW, Anon
Spine Membrane Horror x1 HP 12, Prot 16, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 40, Fly, Eth,
Spi, Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Magic Power 1, Fear +5, SpSi, Void Sanity 20, Wpn: Stinger,
Mind Blast
Blood 6 Bind Ice Devil B3W3 88 - - NUW
Ice Devil (x1) HP 56, Prot 15, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, Demon,
Cold pow 1, FR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 3, Chill 3, Ldr 150, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3S2,
Wpn: Magic Sceptre, Barbed Tail
153
[[page 154]]
Blood 7 Father Illearth B3E4 105 - - NUW
Father Illearth (x1) HP 130, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 27, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 16, MS, Magic,
NNEat, Regen 15%, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 120, Mag: E4B3, Wpn:
Fist
Blood 8 Curse of Blood B3D4 96 - - NUW
Vampire Lord x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Und,
NNEat, Stealth 40, BlR, SlR, Undead Regen 10%, FR -5, CR +15, PR +25, DV 100, Invulnerability
25, Dominion Summoner 1+ Thralls, Ldr 100, UndLdr 280, MagLdr 30, Mag: D3B3, Wpn: Life
Drain
Blood 5 Horde from Hell B4 44 4 - NUW
Imp x40 HP 8, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 22, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, FR +15, CR -5, Wpn: Claws
Blood 5 Bind Succubus B4G1 66 - - NUW
Succubus x1 HP 30, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Stealth 40, FR +15, SpSi, Dream Seduction , Scale Walls, Unseen, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50,
MagLdr 20, Mag: G2, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 7 Bind Arch Devil B4F2 99 - - NUW
Arch Devil (x1) HP 62, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 15, Def 15, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, Fire Gems 1/month, FR +25, CR -5, Heat 3, Ldr 190, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 40, Mag: F4,
Wpn: Enchanted Sickle, Barbed Tail
Blood 9 Send Horror B4S4 30 6 - NUW, Anon
Gore Tide Horror x1 HP 62, Prot 0, MR 20, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 17, Def 17, Prec 17, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 100, Magic,
Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Regen 50%, Magic Power 1, FR +10, Acid Res +10, CR +10, PR +10,
Fear +15, SpSi, Invulnerability 18, Void Sanity 20, Wpn: Gore Tide
Blood 5 Bind Incubus B4G1 66 - - NUW
Incubus x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Stealth 40, FR +15, SpSi, Dream Seduction , Scale Walls, Unseen, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50,
MagLdr 20, Mag: G2, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 6 Ritual of Five Gates B5 33 - - NUW
Fiend of Darkness x1 HP 30, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 24, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Dark Power 2, Wpn: Venomous Claw, Venomous Claw
Devil x1 HP 35, Prot 8, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, FR +25, CR -5, Heat 3, Wpn: Trident, Barbed Tail
Frost Fiend x1 HP 25, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Cold pow 1, FR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 1, Chill 3, Wpn: Ice Rod, Frost Blast
Storm Demon x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 34, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Storm Power 3, SR +15, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning
Demon Knight x1 HP 20, Prot 22, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 14, Demon,
NNEat, FR +15, Fear +5, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Demon Steed
Blood 7 Plague of Locusts B5 88 4 - NUW
Demonic Locust x11 HP 29, Prot 19, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 14, Att 15, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, FR +5, PR +5, Heretic 1, Wpn: Stinger
Blood 8 Bind Heliophagus B5 111 - - NUW
Heliophagus (x1) HP 55, Prot 10, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 17, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 28, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Dark Power 4, FR +5, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Ldr 140,
UndLdr 130, MagLdr 70, Mag: F4B3, Wpn: Demon Whip, Barbed Tail
154
[[page 155]]
Blood 9 Infernal Forces B5F2 50 - - NUW
Devil x18+ HP 35, Prot 8, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, FR +25, CR -5, Heat 3, Wpn: Trident, Barbed Tail
Imp x40 HP 8, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 22, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, FR +15, CR -5, Wpn: Claws
Blood 9 Infernal Tempest B5A2 50 - - NUW
Storm Demon x12+ HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 34, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Storm Power 3, SR +15, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning
Blood 9 Forces of Ice B5W2 50 - - NUW
Frost Fiend x15+ HP 25, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Cold pow 1, FR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 1, Chill 3, Wpn: Ice Rod, Frost Blast
Blood 9 Infernal Crusade B5E2 50 - - NUW
Demon Knight x10+ HP 20, Prot 22, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 14, Demon,
NNEat, FR +15, Fear +5, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Demon Steed
Blood 9 Forces of Darkness B6 50 - - NUW
Fiend of Darkness x22+ HP 30, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 24, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Dark Power 2, Wpn: Venomous Claw, Venomous Claw
Blood 9 Bind Demon Lord B8 150 - - NUW
Monster of Fraud (x1) HP 206, Prot 17, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 26, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 22, MM 34, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, CR +15, PR +20, Fear +10, SpSi, Heretic 5, Ldr 150, UndLdr 290, MagLdr 90,
Mag: D3G5B4, Wpn: Claw, Claw, Barbed Tail
National Rituals: Arcoscephale (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Cnst 6 Craft Keledone E2S2 5 - -
Keledone x1 HP 19, Prot 25, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Inanim, Magic,
Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Spell Singer, Wpn:
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
Conj 5 Procession of the D3 13 - - NUW
Underworld
Lampad x15 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, SpSi,
Invulnerability 15, Patrol 5, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Banefire Torch
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
National Rituals: Mekone (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
155
[[page 156]]
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
Conj 5 Procession of the D3 13 - - NUW
Underworld
Lampad x15 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, SpSi,
Invulnerability 15, Patrol 5, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Banefire Torch
National Rituals: Pangaea (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
National Rituals: Ermor (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Contact Lar N1 16 - - NUW
Lar x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Eth,
Sacr, Recup, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40, Supply 15, PR +15, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
W1E1N2, Wpn: Fist
National Rituals: Sauromatia (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Daughter of Typhon N5D2 30 - - NUW
Daughter of Typhon (x1) HP 220, Prot 13, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 15, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 12, SS, Sacr,
Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR +25, Fear +10, Wpn: Lesser Heads, Lesser Heads,
Lesser Heads, Lesser Heads, Immortal Head
National Rituals: Fomoria (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 2 Summon Black Dogs D2 5 - - NUW
Black Dog x20 HP 14, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Stealth 60,
Dark Power 2, DV 100, Wpn: Bite
Conj 4 Summon Barghests D2 7 - - NUW
Barghest x14 HP 28, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, Sacr, Stealth
60, Dark Power 3, DV 100, Curses attacker, Wpn: Venomous Bite
Conj 6 Summon Morrigan D2A1 5 - - NUW
Morrigan x1 HP 17, Prot 14, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 15, Def 20, Prec 15, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Fly,
Glamour, Sacr, Und, NNEat, Stealth 65, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Spear of the
Morrigan
156
[[page 157]]
National Rituals: Tir na n'Og (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Cu Sidhe G2 5 - - NUW
Cu Sidhe x10 HP 26, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite
National Rituals: Marverni (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Sounder of Boars N1H1 15 - - NUW
Great Boar x20 HP 20, Prot 6, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Trample, Wpn: Gore
Conj 5 Contact Boar of Carnutes N1E1 7 - - NUW
Great Boar of Carnutes x1 HP 58, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Trample, Fortune Teller 15, Dominion Summoner 1+ Great Boars, Ldr 50, MagLdr 50, Wpn:
Gore
Conj 3 Sloth of Bears N2 6 - - NUW
Great Bear x15+ HP 40, Prot 8, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 19, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 22, FS, MS, Wpn:
Bite, Claw
National Rituals: Agartha (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Rhuax Pact F1E1 2 - -
Magma Child x3 HP 17, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 16, Magic,
NNEat, Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +15, SpSi, Heat 3, Fire Shield 10 AP dmg, Wpn: Flame Strike
Ench 5 Living Mercury W1E1 6 - -
Living Mercury x1 HP 140, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 50, Str 28, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush, Crush, Crush
Conj 3 Barathrus Pact E2 3 - -
Earth Elemental x2 HP 70, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 19, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 16, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, NNEat, Aff Res 4, Reconstruction 8%, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crystal
Fist
Conj 3 Bind Penumbral D1E1 1 - -
Penumbral x1 HP 30, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 15, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi, Und,
Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 3 Revive Cavern Wights D1E1 8 - - NUW
Cavern Wight x5 HP 31, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 17, Str 17, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 18, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Bronze Glaive
Conj 5 Bind Umbral D2E1 2 - -
Umbral x1 HP 68, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Eth, Spi, Und,
Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain
National Rituals: Abysia (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
157
[[page 158]]
Conj 2 Summon Spectral Infantry D1F1 5 - - NUW
Smoulderghost x7 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 16, Str 13, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, WS, Eth, Spi,
Und, NNEat, FR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Wpn: Spectral Axe
National Rituals: Hinnom (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Mazzikim N1 3 - - NUW
Mazzik x10 HP 9, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Claws
Conj 5 Summon Lilot N4 15 - - NUW
Lilot x1 HP 22, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, Stealth 55, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 3 Summon Se'irim B2 23 - - NUW
Se'ir x5 HP 28, Prot 7, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 16, WS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Berserker +4, Wpn: Claw, Claw, Gore
Blood 4 Summon Shedim B3A1 28 - - NUW
Shed x3 HP 40, Prot 8, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Storm Power 2, SR +15, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning
Blood 9 Release Lord of Civilization B8 177 - - NUW
Grigori (x1) HP 66, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 60, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Fear +10, SpSi, Damage Reversal 3
vs MR, Invulnerability 30, Fortune Teller 20, Ldr 190, UndLdr 40, MagLdr 260, Mag:
F4S4B4H3, Wpn: Fist
National Rituals: Ubar (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Summon Hinn A1F1 4 - - NUW
Hinn x5+ HP 15, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, WS, Eth,
Magic, Stealth 40, FR +15, SR +15, SpSi, Heat 3, Unseen, Wpn: Bite
Conj 6 Summon Si'lat A2 21 - - NUW
Si'lat x1 HP 14, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Fly, Eth,
Glamour, Magic, Stealth 65, Magic Power 1, FR +5, SR +15, SpSi, Seduction , Storm Immunity,
Ldr 20, MagLdr 50, Mag: F1A2G1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Summon Binn W1A1 4 - - NUW
Binn x5+ HP 19, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Eth,
Magic, Stealth 40, SR +5, PR +5, SpSi, Unseen, Wpn: Claw, Bite
Conj 8 Contact Marid W2F4 60 - -
Marid x1 HP 56, Prot 3, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 24, Att 15, Def 11, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Eth, Magic, Amph, Magic Power 1, Heat pow 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, Fear +5, SpSi, Heat 5, Fire
Shield 12 AP dmg, Unseen, Storm Immunity, Ldr 90, MagLdr 140, Mag: F4A4W2E1G2, Wpn:
Fist, Gore
Blood 4 Feast for Ghuls B1 16 - - NUW
Ghul x5+ HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 20, WS, Demon,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40, Regen 50%, FR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Claw
Blood 5 Summon Ghulah B1 31 - - NUW
Ghulah x1 HP 13, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 20, WS, Demon,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40, Regen 50%, FR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Assassin, Blood Searcher 1, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 60, MagLdr 20, Mag: D1B1, Wpn: Claw
158
[[page 159]]
National Rituals: Ur (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Summon Ugallu A3 24 - - NUW
Ugallu x1 HP 30, Prot 4, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SR +15, SpSi, Storm Immunity, Ldr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: A3, Wpn: Apotropaic
Dagger, Apotropaic Mace, Bite
Conj 7 Call Anzus W2E2 4 - - NUW
Anzu x2 HP 82, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 21, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 40, MS, Fly, FR
+10, SR +15, Siege Strength +10, Patrol 10, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Bite, Talons, Talons, Water
Breath, Flaming Breath
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
Conj 4 Summon Kusarikkus E1 4 - - NUW
Kusarikku x2 HP 34, Prot 9, MR 15, Mor 16, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, Sacr, Magic,
NNEat, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Apotropaic Spear, Gore
Conj 8 Call Apkallu S5 60 - - NUW
Umu-apkallu x1 HP 36, Prot 1, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 32, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, Research +10, Disease Healing 1, SR +15, Ldr 150, MagLdr 230, Mag:
A3W3E2S4N2H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 3 Herd of Buffaloes N2 8 - - NUW
Buffalo x5+ HP 43, Prot 5, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 18, Trample,
Berserker +2, Wpn: Hoof, Gore
National Rituals: Kailasa (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Angiri F2 5 - - NUW
Angiri x5+ HP 23, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
FR +15, Awe +1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 3 Summon Apsaras S2 3 - - NUW
Apsara x5+ HP 20, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +4, Wpn: Kick
Conj 4 Summon Vidyadhara S2 15 - - NUW
Vidyadhara x1 HP 21, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: A1S2, Wpn: Kryss, Kick
Conj 5 Summon Gandharvas S2 15 - - NUW
Gandharva x6 HP 25, Prot 18, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +2, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 6 Summon Garudas S2 21 - - NUW
Garuda x6 HP 23, Prot 18, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, PR +15, Awe +2, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 6 Summon Maruts S2 18 - - NUW
Marut x3 HP 29, Prot 15, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Storm Power 1, FR +15, SR +15, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Apotropaic Sword, Kick,
Lightning
159
[[page 160]]
Conj 6 Summon Kinnara S3 25 - - NUW
Kinnara x1 HP 30, Prot 3, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +3, Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: A2S2H2, Wpn: Kick
Conj 7 Summon Siddha S4 35 - - NUW
Siddha x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 100, Sacr, Magic,
Ambidex 4, Awe +3, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 90, Mag: A2S3H3, Wpn: Fist, Kick
Conj 8 Summon Devata S5 45 - - NUW
Devata x1 HP 28, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 12, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 5, Awe +5, SpSi, Ldr 150, MagLdr 80, Mag: A3S2H3, Wpn: Spear, Falchion, Axe,
Kick
Conj 9 Summon Devala S5 55 - - NUW
Devala x1 HP 20, Prot 1, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +4, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: S3H4, Wpn: Kick
Conj 9 Summon Rudra S5 55 - - NUW
Rudra x1 HP 32, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Research -20, Forge Bonus -5, Ambidex 5, Storm Power 2, FR +15, SR +15, Fear +5, SpSi,
Storm Immunity, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 60, Mag: F3A3D3H1, Wpn: Apotropaic Sword, Kick,
Plague Bow, Lightning
Conj 4 Contact Yaksha N2E1 25 - - NUW
Yaksha x1 HP 28, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: E3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 4 Contact Yakshini N2W1 25 - - NUW
Yakshini x1 HP 23, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Amph, Awe +2, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Fist, Kick
Conj 5 Summon Kimpurushas N2S1 15 - - NUW
Kimpurusha x6 HP 25, Prot 15, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +2, DV 50, Wpn: Falchion, Kick, Bite
National Rituals: Lanka (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 2 Host of Ganas D1 9 - - NUW
Gana x20+ HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spectral Club
Conj 5 Summon Vetalas D2 10 - -
Possessed Corpse x15 HP 22, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Inanim, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Mace
Blood 1 Summon Rakshasas B1 8 - - NUW
Rakshasa x3 HP 28, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Blood 2 Feast of Flesh B1N1 50 - - NUW
Praghasa x18 HP 35, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 22, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Mace
Blood 3 Summon Asrapas B2 8 - - NUW
Asrapa x3 HP 19, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, Berserker +3, Mag: B1H1, Wpn: Athame, Kick
160
[[page 161]]
Blood 4 Summon Rakshasa B2 21 - - NUW
Warriors
Rakshasa Warrior x5 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Iron Cudgel
Blood 5 Summon Sandhyabalas B2D1 25 - - NUW
Sandhyabala x3 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Chaos Power 1, Dark Power 1, FR -10, Wpn: Moon Blade
Blood 7 Summon Samanishada B3D1 35 - - NUW
Samanishada x1 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Ambidex 2, Chaos Power 1, Dark Power 2, FR -10, Assassin, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 50, Wpn: Moon Blade, Duskdagger
Blood 6 Summon Dakini B4A1 81 - - NUW
Dakini x1 HP 23, Prot 12, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, Fear +5, SpSi, Damage Reversal 1 v MR, Ldr 50, UndLdr 90, MagLdr 70,
Mag: A3D1B3H2, Wpn: Athame, Kick
Blood 8 Summon Mandeha B5D2 133 - - NUW
Mandeha x1 HP 65, Prot 15, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 24, Att 15, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 15, MM 26, FS, Fly,
Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 2, Dark Power 3, FR -10, Fear +5, Sleep Aura 15, SpSi, Ldr
50, UndLdr 240, MagLdr 60, Mag: A3D2B3H3, Wpn: Flesh Eater
Blood 8 Summon Danavas B5 70 - - NUW
Danava x3 HP 92, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 24, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 20, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Ambidex 8, Chaos Power 2, FR -5, Fear +5, SpSi, Mag: H2?2, Wpn: Unholy
Sword, Unholy Spear, Unholy Axe
Blood 8 Summon Daitya B5 45 - - NUW
Daitya x3 HP 82, Prot 13, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 20, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 2, FR -5, SpSi, Mag: H2?3, Wpn: Unholy Sword, Plague Bow
National Rituals: T'ien Ch'i (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Heavenly Fires F1S1 4 - - NUW
Demon of Heavenly Fires HP 24, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
x3 Magic, NNEat, Heat pow 1, FR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Wpn: Flaming Fist, Flaming Wheel
Conj 4 Celestial Hounds A1S1 2 - - NUW
Celestial Hound x2 HP 25, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 20, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SR +15, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 6 Call Celestial Soldiers A2S1 15 - - NUW
Celestial Soldier x6 HP 38, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 10, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Glaive
Conj 3 Heavenly Rivers W1S1 9 - - NUW
Demon of Heavenly Rivers HP 32, Prot 15, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr,
x3 Magic, Amph, NNEat, SpSi, Berserker +4, Wpn: Great Club
Conj 1 Celestial Servant E1S1 1 - - NUW
Celestial Servant x1 HP 48, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Rake
Conj 6 Contact Huli Jing N2 30 - - NUW
Huli Jing x1 HP 11, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Stealth 80,
Magic Power 1, Spy, MagLdr 70, Mag: N1G3?1, Wpn: Dagger
161
[[page 162]]
Conj 3 Ambush of Tigers N2 9 - - NUW
Tiger x15+ HP 22, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, DV 50,
Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 3 Herd of Buffaloes N2 8 - - NUW
Buffalo x5+ HP 43, Prot 5, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 18, Trample,
Berserker +2, Wpn: Hoof, Gore
National Rituals: Yomi (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Konoha Tengus A1E1 3 - - NUW
Konoha Tengu x5+ HP 12, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 5 Contact Dai Tengu A2E1 55 - - NUW
Dai Tengu x1 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag: A3E1N1H2, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Lightning
Tengu Warrior x10 HP 13, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 22, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Karasu Tengu x15 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 1 Summon Kappa W1N1 3 - - NUW
Kappa x5 HP 15, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 10, MM 16, Recup, Amph,
Wpn: Claw, Koppo
Conj 5 Contact Nushi W2N1 25 - - NUW
Nushi x1 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Awe +3,
Homesickness 20, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: W3D1N2, Wpn: Claw
Conj 7 Summon Araburu-kami D1F1 5 - - NUW
Araburu-kami x1 HP 30, Prot 19, MR 14, Mor 16, Str 14, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 19, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, PR +15, Awe +2, SpSi, Wpn: Enchanted No-Dachi, Throw
Flames, Lightning Strike
Conj 4 Summon Shikome D2 5 - - NUW
Shikome x10 HP 15, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, FR +5, CR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Berserker +4, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost
Rending Claw
Conj 6 Summon Gozu Mezu D3 6 - - NUW
Ox-head x1 HP 46, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Demon,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Gore, Soul Catcher
Horse-face x1 HP 38, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 15, Def 13, Prec 15, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Demon,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Soul Catcher
Conj 4 Ghost General D3 10 - -
Shura x1 HP 20, Prot 17, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Float, Eth,
Spi, Und, Amph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 100, UndLdr 150, Wpn: Bane
Blade
Conj 2 Summon Karasu Tengus N1A1 2 - - NUW
Karasu Tengu x3 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 3 Ambush of Tigers N2 9 - - NUW
Tiger x15+ HP 22, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, DV 50,
Wpn: Bite, Claw
162
[[page 163]]
National Rituals: Caelum (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Call Ahurani S2W1 12 - - NUW
Ahurani x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Recup, Magic, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Disease Healing 1, CR +5, PR +15, Awe +2, SpSi, Gift
of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W2H1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 5 Summon Yazatas S2 12 - - NUW
Yazad x6 HP 16, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 7 Call Fravashi S3 30 - - NUW
Ancestral Fravashi x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 4, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, Awe +4, MagLdr 70, Mag: A3S2H3, Wpn: Sacred Circlet
Conj 6 Call Celestial Yazad S4 40 - - NUW
Yazad of Fire x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, FR +15, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +3, SpSi, Ldr 140, MagLdr 90, Mag: F4S2H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Amesha Spenta S5 60 - - NUW
Spenta of Waters (x1) HP 39, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Recup, Magic, NNEat, Healing 3, SR +15, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 150, MagLdr 140,
Mag: W4H3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 5 Call Daevas D2F1 12 - - NUW
Daeva x6 HP 16, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 5 Call Jahi D3F1 15 - - NUW
Jahi x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SpSi, Spy, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr
50, Wpn: Claw
Conj 6 Call Yata D3F2 40 - - NUW
Yata x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 130, UndLdr 200, MagLdr 30, Mag:
F3D3H2, Wpn: Claw
Conj 8 Call Greater Daeva D4F2 60 - - NUW
Daeva of Evil Intentions HP 44, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
(x1) Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 150, UndLdr 330,
MagLdr 30, Mag: D4B3H3, Wpn: Magic Staff
National Rituals: Mictlan (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Summon Jade Serpents W2 3 - -
Jade Serpent x2 HP 62, Prot 12, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, SS, Sacr,
Amph, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Conj 7 Summon Tlaloque W4 60 - - NUW
Tlaloque of the West (x1) HP 48, Prot 5, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 16, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Supply 100, SpSi, Ldr 50, UndLdr 180, MagLdr 70, Mag: W4D2B3H3, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Conj 1 Summon Jaguar Toads N1H1 2 - - NUW
Jaguar Toad x3 HP 21, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +15, Wpn: Head Butt, Poison Spit
163
[[page 164]]
Conj 6 Contact Couatl N1S1 40 - - NUW
Couatl x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, FS, SS, Fly,
Sacr, Magic, PR +15, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 140, Mag: S3N3H2, Wpn: Venomous
Fangs
Conj 3 Summon Jaguars N2H1 20 - - NUW
Jaguar x25 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 5 Summon Monster Toad N2 1 - - NUW
Monster Toad x1 HP 63, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +25, Wpn: Head Butt
Blood 2 Bind Beast Bats B1 8 - - NUW
Beast Bat x3 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 4 Bind Jaguar Fiends B1F1 16 - - NUW
Ozelotl x3 HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
Blood 5 Contact Civateteo B2D2 36 - - NUW
Civateteo x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Eth, Sacr,
Und, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 200, MagLdr 10, Mag:
D1B1H2, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 6 Bind Tzitzimitl B2S2 10 - - NUW
Tzitzimitl x1 HP 43, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Scorpion Tail, Stellar Bolt
Blood 6 Contact Tlahuelpuchi B3 42 - - NUW
Tlahuelpuchi x1 HP 17, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 28, Fly, NNEat,
Stealth 50, DV 100, Assassin, Patience +2, UndLdr 70, MagLdr 30, Mag: D1N1B2, Wpn: Life
Drain
Blood 7 Contact Onaqui B4 101 - - NUW
Onaqui x1 HP 31, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 2, Retinue 2 Beast Bats, Dominion Summoner 1+
Beast Bats, Ldr 100, UndLdr 230, MagLdr 50, Mag: D2N1B3H1?1, Wpn: Venomous Fangs,
Claw, Claw
Beast Bat x8 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 8 Rain of Jaguars B6F2 40 - - NUW
Ozelotl x14+ HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
National Rituals: Xibalba (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Chaac A4 75 - - NUW
Chaac of the East (x1) HP 32, Prot 3, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, Supply 50, SR +15, Storm Immunity, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 80, Mag: A4W2N2H3,
Wpn: Thunder Axe, Lightning
Conj 3 Summon Sacred Scorpion E1D1 2 - - NUW
Sacred Scorpion x1 HP 48, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 7, Prec 3, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 10, WS, Sacr, PR
+15, DV 100, Wpn: Pincer, Pincer, Scorpion Tail
164
[[page 165]]
Conj 3 Summon Jaguars N2H1 20 - - NUW
Jaguar x25 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 7 Summon Balam N4 60 - - NUW
Balam of the East (x1) HP 49, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, Ldr 100, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 90, Mag: W2N4B2H3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Blood 2 Bind Beast Bats B1 8 - - NUW
Beast Bat x3 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 4 Bind Jaguar Fiends B1F1 16 - - NUW
Ozelotl x3 HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
Blood 7 Contact Onaqui B4 101 - - NUW
Onaqui x1 HP 31, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 2, Retinue 2 Beast Bats, Dominion Summoner 1+
Beast Bats, Ldr 100, UndLdr 180, MagLdr 60, Mag: D2N1B3H1?1, Wpn: Venomous Fangs,
Claw, Claw
Beast Bat x8 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 8 Rain of Jaguars B6F2 40 - - NUW
Ozelotl x14+ HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
National Rituals: C'tis (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
Conj 7 Contact Couatl N1S1 40 - - NUW
Couatl x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, FS, SS, Fly,
Sacr, Magic, PR +15, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 140, Mag: S3N3H2, Wpn: Venomous
Fangs
Conj 4 Sacred Crocodile N2W2 1 - - NUW
Sacred Crocodile x1 HP 73, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 21, Att 11, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 10, SS, Sacr, Wpn:
Bite
Conj 5 Summon Monster Toads N2 5 - - NUW
Monster Toad x3 HP 63, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +25, Wpn: Head Butt
165
[[page 166]]
National Rituals: Machaka (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Herd of Elephants N2 20 - - NUW
Elephant x5+ HP 61, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 8, Str 20, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn:
Tusk
National Rituals: Berytos (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Telkhine W5A2 69 - -
Telkhine x1 HP 53, Prot 8, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 22, Amph, Air
Magic +1, Water Magic +1, SR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, Reaper 5, Army Sail, Ship Size 7, Ldr 120,
UndLdr 200, MagLdr 190, Mag: F2A3W3E3D2?1, Wpn: Bite
Conj 3 Summon Mazzikim N1 3 - - NUW
Mazzik x10 HP 9, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Claws
Conj 3 Herd of Elephants N2 20 - - NUW
Elephant x5+ HP 61, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 8, Str 20, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn:
Tusk
Conj 5 Summon Lilot N4 15 - - NUW
Lilot x1 HP 22, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, Stealth 55, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 3 Scapegoats B1 8 - - NUW
Se'ir x2 HP 28, Prot 7, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 16, WS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Berserker +4, Wpn: Claw, Claw, Gore
Blood 6 Call Melqart B3F2 99 - - NUW
Melqart x1 HP 69, Prot 19, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 24, Att 15, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
NNEat, FR +10, Fear +5, Blood Searcher 3, Sacrifice Bonus 1, Ldr 200, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 50,
Mag: B3H3?2, Wpn: Dawn Blade, Gore
Blood 4 Summon Shedim B3A1 28 - - NUW
Shed x3 HP 40, Prot 8, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Storm Power 2, SR +15, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning
National Rituals: Vanheim (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the West (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 1, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: A4E3D2, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 4 Awaken Draugar D2 12 - - NUW
Draug x4 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
166
[[page 167]]
National Rituals: Helheim (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the West (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 1, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: A4E3D2, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 4 Awaken Draugar D2 12 - - NUW
Draug x4 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
Conj 4 Brood of Garm N2 10 - - NUW
Jotun Wolf x5 HP 30, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 23, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr, CR
+15, Fear +5, Berserker +3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
National Rituals: Rus (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Firebird F1S1 2 - - NUW
Firebird x1 HP 8, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 7, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 28, FS, MS, Fly,
Magic, FR +15, Wpn: Talons, Fire Flare
Conj 5 Summon Zmey F2 5 - - NUW
Zmey x1 HP 45, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 28, MS, Fly, FR
+15, Wpn: Bite, Bite, Bite, Drake Fire
Conj 2 Summon Simargl A1 1 - - NUW
Simargl x1 HP 13, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Patrol
10, Wpn: Bite
Conj 7 Contact Cloud Vila A4 40 - - NUW
Cloud Vila x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Stealth 50, Healing 1, SR +15, CR +5, Seduction , Storm Immunity, MagLdr 70, Mag:
A3S1N2, Wpn: Fist, Lightning Strike
Conj 4 Summon Rusalka W1D1 16 - - NUW
Rusalka x1 HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Und, Amph,
Stealth 60, CR +15, PR +25, Seduction , Gift of Water Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 10, UndLdr
60, MagLdr 10, Mag: W1D1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 4 Send Vodyanoy W2 20 4 -
Vodyanoy x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 10, Aqua, Stealth
40, Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3N1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Contact Beregina W3E1 35 - -
Beregina x1 HP 8, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Magic, Amph,
Awe +3, SpSi, Gift of Water Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3E1N2, Wpn:
Fist
Conj 5 Send Bukavac W4 5 4 - Anon
Bukavac x1 HP 162, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 10, Magic,
Trample, Aqua, Fear +5, Wpn: Gore, Tentacle, Tentacle
Conj 3 Contact Sirin S2 8 - - NUW
Sirin x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Stealth 50, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Conj 4 Contact Alkonost S2 15 - - NUW
Alkonost x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr, SR
+15, Awe +5, Inspirational +2, Ldr 50, Mag: H3, Wpn: Claw, Claw
167
[[page 168]]
Conj 5 Contact Gamayun S3 25 - - NUW
Gamayun x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Research +6, Awe +3, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: A2S2H2, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Conj 4 Summon Likho D1 10 - - NUW
Likho x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 8, Str 12, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Stealth 60,
Wpn: Claw, Curse
Conj 3 Summon Bears N1H1 8 - - NUW
Great Bear x15 HP 44, Prot 8, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 22, FS, MS, Sacr,
Wpn: Claw, Bite
Conj 7 Contact Mountain Vila N4 40 - - NUW
Mountain Vila x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 16, FS, MS,
Sacr, Stealth 50, Healing 2, SR +15, CR +5, Seduction , Rider 3, MagLdr 70, Mag: A2S1N3, Wpn:
Fist, Vine Bow, Mount: Sacred Stag
Conj 8 Contact Leshiy N6 60 - - NUW
Leshiy x1 HP 24, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, FS, Magic,
Magic -1, CR +5, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: A2W1E2N3, Wpn: Gore, Fist
National Rituals: Niefelheim (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the South (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 2, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 30, MagLdr 90, Mag: F2A4E3, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 5 Summon Rimvaettir W2 5 - - NUW
Rimvaetti x5+ HP 10, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Stealth
40, Cold pow 1, CR +25, Ice Prot 1, Chill 2, Wpn: Hatchet
Conj 4 Awaken Jotun Draugar D2 15 - - NUW
Jotun Draug x3 HP 70, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 23, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
Conj 4 Brood of Garm N2 10 - - NUW
Jotun Wolf x5 HP 30, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 23, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr, CR
+15, Fear +5, Berserker +3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
National Rituals: Muspelheim (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the West (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 1, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: A4E3D2, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 4 Awaken Jotun Draugar D2 15 - - NUW
Jotun Draug x3 HP 70, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 23, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
Conj 3 Summon Glosos D2 10 - - NUW
Gloso x9 HP 28, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Trample, Stealth 50, FR +25, DV 100, Heat 3, Wpn: Poisonous Gore
Conj 4 Brood of Garm N2 10 - - NUW
Jotun Wolf x5 HP 30, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 23, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr, CR
+15, Fear +5, Berserker +3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
168
[[page 169]]
National Rituals: Therodos (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 8 Summon Telkhine W5A2 69 - -
Telkhine x1 HP 53, Prot 8, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 22, Amph, Air
Magic +1, Water Magic +1, SR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, Reaper 5, Army Sail, Ship Size 7, Ldr 120,
UndLdr 200, MagLdr 190, Mag: F2A3W3E3D2?1, Wpn: Bite
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Conj 0 Call Ephor D1 7 - -
Ephor x1 HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, Amph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Paralyze
Conj 0 Call Spectral Philosopher D1 11 - -
Spectral Philosopher x1 HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Float, Eth, Spi,
Und, Amph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, Wpn: Paralyze
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
Conj 5 Procession of the D3 13 - - NUW
Underworld
Lampad x15 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, SpSi,
Invulnerability 15, Patrol 5, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Banefire Torch
National Rituals: Atlantis (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Summon Monster Fish W3 6 - - UW
Monster Fish x1 HP 128, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 25, Att 12, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 10, Aqua, Fear
+5, Wpn: Swallow
National Rituals: R'lyeh (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 5 Enslave Sea Trolls S3W2 10 - -
Slave Troll x5+ HP 52, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 12, Amph,
NNEat, Regen 10%, Acid Res -5, PR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Glaive
169
[[page 170]]
National Rituals: Arcoscephale (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Cnst 6 Craft Keledone E2S2 5 - -
Keledone x1 HP 19, Prot 25, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Inanim, Magic,
Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Spell Singer, Wpn:
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
Conj 5 Procession of the D3 13 - - NUW
Underworld
Lampad x15 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, SpSi,
Invulnerability 15, Patrol 5, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Banefire Torch
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
National Rituals: Phlegra (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
Conj 5 Procession of the D3 13 - - NUW
Underworld
Lampad x15 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, SpSi,
Invulnerability 15, Patrol 5, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Banefire Torch
National Rituals: Pangaea (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
170
[[page 171]]
National Rituals: Asphodel (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 0 Carrion Centaur N1D1 8 - - NUW
Carrion Centaur x1 HP 24, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 7, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Recup, Inanim, Und, Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +5, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 50, UndLdr 150,
MagLdr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Sleep Vines, Sleep Vines, Hoof
Ench 0 Carrion Lady N1D1 16 - - NUW
Carrion Lady x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Recup, Inanim, Und, Magic, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, PiR, CR +5, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr
100, MagLdr 30, Mag: N1H2?1, Wpn: Sleep Vines, Claw, Hoof
Ench 0 Carrion Lord N3D2 35 - - NUW
Carrion Lord x1 HP 53, Prot 2, MR 18, Mor 16, Str 19, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 9, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup,
Inanim, Und, Magic, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, PiR, CR +5, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 350, MagLdr 40, Mag: D2N3H3?1, Wpn: Sleep Vines, Carrion Vine, Club
National Rituals: Ermor (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 0 Revive Lictor D2 3 - - NUW
Lictor x1 HP 20, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Sacr, Und,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Battleaxe
Conj 0 Revive Censor D2 4 - - NUW
Censor x1 HP 23, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Sacr, Und,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 150, Wpn: Battleaxe
Conj 0 Revive Acolyte D2 10 - - NUW
Acolyte of Eldregate x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Sacr, Und,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 120, Mag: H1, Wpn: Poisoned Claw
Conj 0 Revive Bishop D2 16 - - NUW
Bishop of Eldregate x1 HP 23, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Sacr, Und,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 190, Mag: H2, Wpn: Poisoned Claw
Conj 0 Revive Spectator D2 12 - -
Spectator x1 HP 25, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Und, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 110, Mag:
D2, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 2 Revive Wailing Lady D2 8 - -
Wailing Lady x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +10, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Wail
Conj 3 Lictorian Guard D2 10 - - NUW
Lictor x5 HP 20, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Sacr, Und,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Battleaxe
Conj 0 Revive Arch Bishop D3 23 - - NUW
Arch Bishop of Eldregate x1 HP 25, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Sacr, Und,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 260, Mag: H3, Wpn: Rod of Death
Conj 0 Revive Dusk Elder D3 20 - -
Dusk Elder x1 HP 30, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 14, Att 10, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Und, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 20, UndLdr 200,
MagLdr 50, Mag: F1S1D3?1, Wpn: Life Drain
171
[[page 172]]
Conj 5 Lamentation D3 25 - -
Wailing Lady x5 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +10, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Wail
Conj 8 Lictorian Legion D4 35 - - NUW
Lictor x25 HP 20, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Sacr, Und,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Battleaxe
Ench 6 Ermorian Legion D4 15 - - NUW
Longdead Legionnaire x50 HP 5, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 21, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Conj 7 Great Lamentation D5 33 - -
Wailing Lady x14 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +10, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Wail
National Rituals: Pythium (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Contact Angel of the Host S3 7 - - NUW
Angel of the Host x1 HP 17, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Wpn: Heavenly Sword
Conj 6 Angelic Choir S3 15 - - NUW
Angel of the Heavenly HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Choir x3 Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 7 Heavenly Wrath S3F1 35 - - NUW
Angel of Fury x1 HP 49, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 17, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Blood Vengeance 4 vs MR, Invulnerability 20, Wpn: Holy
Scourge
Conj 6 Contact Harbinger S4 25 - - NUW
Harbinger x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Ldr 100, MagLdr 80, Mag: A3H2,
Wpn: Fist, Heavenly Horn
Conj 7 Angelic Host S5 50 5 - NUW
Angel of the Host x6 HP 17, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Wpn: Heavenly Sword
Conj 9 Heavenly Choir S7F2 144 - - NUW
Seraph x1 HP 77, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Awe +7, SpSi, Sight Vengeance 5 vs MR, Invulnerability
30, Fire Shield 12 AP dmg, Ldr 240, MagLdr 260, Mag: F4A4S4H4, Wpn: Fist
Angel of the Heavenly HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Choir x9 Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H2, Wpn: Fist
Harbinger of the Choir x3 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Wpn: Fist, Heavenly Horn
Conj 5 Contact Lar N1 16 - - NUW
Lar x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Eth,
Sacr, Recup, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40, Supply 15, PR +15, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
W1E1N2, Wpn: Fist
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
172
[[page 173]]
National Rituals: Man (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 2 Summon Black Dogs D2 5 - - NUW
Black Dog x20 HP 14, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Stealth 60,
Dark Power 2, DV 100, Wpn: Bite
Conj 4 Summon Barghests D2 7 - - NUW
Barghest x14 HP 28, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, Sacr, Stealth
60, Dark Power 3, DV 100, Curses attacker, Wpn: Venomous Bite
Conj 4 Herd of Unicorns G2N1 10 - - NUW
Unicorn x10 HP 25, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 30, MM 28, FS, Sacr,
Recup, Stealth 40, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn: Alicorn, Hoof
Conj 3 Summon Cu Sidhe G2 5 - - NUW
Cu Sidhe x10 HP 26, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite
National Rituals: Eriu (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Cu Sidhe G2 5 - - NUW
Cu Sidhe x10 HP 26, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite
National Rituals: Agartha (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Rhuax Pact F1E1 2 - -
Magma Child x3 HP 17, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 30, Str 12, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 16, Magic,
NNEat, Heat pow 1, FR +25, PR +15, SpSi, Heat 3, Fire Shield 10 AP dmg, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 4 Olm Conclave W1E1 20 - -
Olm Sage x1 HP 24, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 10, Sacr, Amph,
NNEat, CR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 50, MagLdr 80, Mag: W2E1, Wpn: Life
Drain, Mind Blast
Great Olm x15 HP 23, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 10, Sacr, Amph,
NNEat, CR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast
Ench 5 Living Mercury W1E1 6 - -
Living Mercury x1 HP 140, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 50, Str 28, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush, Crush, Crush
Conj 3 Barathrus Pact E2 3 - -
Earth Elemental x2 HP 70, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 19, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 3, Enc 0, CS 11, MM 16, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, NNEat, Aff Res 4, Reconstruction 8%, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crystal
Fist
Ench 1 Attentive Statues E2 3 - -
Attentive Statue x2 HP 13, Prot 22, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 13, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Patrol 5, Wpn: Granite Sword
Ench 3 Enliven Sentinel E2 2 - -
Sentinel x1 HP 25, Prot 22, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Sacr, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Granite Glaive
Ench 5 Enliven Granite Guard E3 10 - -
Granite Guardian x1 HP 75, Prot 22, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 22, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Sacr, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Granite Glaive
173
[[page 174]]
Ench 6 Enliven Marble Oracle E3D1 35 - -
Marble Oracle x1 HP 85, Prot 22, MR 16, Mor 50, Str 22, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Sacr, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Fortune Teller 15, Mag: H2, Wpn: Stone
Club
Ench 8 Hall of Statues E5 30 - -
Sentinel x20+ HP 25, Prot 22, MR 13, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Sacr, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, PR +25, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Granite Glaive
Conj 3 Summon Penumbrals D1E1 6 - -
Penumbral x6 HP 30, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 15, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi, Und,
Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 3 Awaken Shard Wights D1E1 10 - - NUW
Shard Wight x5+ HP 35, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 17, Str 17, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Shard Glaive
Conj 5 Summon Umbrals D2E1 8 - -
Umbral x6 HP 68, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Eth, Spi, Und,
Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain
National Rituals: Ulm (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Contact Iron Angel E5S2 25 - - NUW
Iron Angel x1 HP 63, Prot 26, MR 20, Mor 30, Str 22, Att 16, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 22, Fly,
NNEat, Magic -10, Ambidex 2, Reinvig 4, FR +5, SR +5, Halt Heretic +9, Wpn: Sword of
Sharpness, Divine Grasp
National Rituals: Marignon (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Contact Angel of the Host S3 7 - - NUW
Angel of the Host x1 HP 17, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Wpn: Heavenly Sword
Conj 6 Angelic Choir S3 15 - - NUW
Angel of the Heavenly HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Choir x3 Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 7 Heavenly Wrath S3F1 35 - - NUW
Angel of Fury x1 HP 49, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 17, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Blood Vengeance 4 vs MR, Invulnerability 20, Wpn: Holy
Scourge
Conj 6 Contact Harbinger S4 25 - - NUW
Harbinger x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Ldr 100, MagLdr 80, Mag: A3H2,
Wpn: Fist, Heavenly Horn
Conj 7 Angelic Host S5 50 5 - NUW
Angel of the Host x6 HP 17, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Wpn: Heavenly Sword
Conj 9 Heavenly Choir S7F2 144 - - NUW
Seraph x1 HP 77, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Awe +7, SpSi, Sight Vengeance 5 vs MR, Invulnerability
30, Fire Shield 12 AP dmg, Ldr 240, MagLdr 260, Mag: F4A4S4H4, Wpn: Fist
Angel of the Heavenly HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Choir x9 Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H2, Wpn: Fist
174
[[page 175]]
Harbinger of the Choir x3 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Wpn: Fist, Heavenly Horn
National Rituals: Abysia (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
Conj 2 Summon Spectral Infantry D1F1 5 - - NUW
Smoulderghost x7 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 16, Str 13, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, WS, Eth, Spi,
Und, NNEat, FR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Wpn: Spectral Axe
National Rituals: Ashdod (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Call Malakh S2 9 - - NUW
Malakh x1 HP 13, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 60, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +4, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Call Hashmal S3F1 21 - - NUW
Hashmal x1 HP 27, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, NNEat, FR +25, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Inquisitor, Fire Shield 10
AP dmg, Ldr 150, MagLdr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 7 Call Arel S4N1 39 - - NUW
Arel x1 HP 33, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 8, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Healing 3, FR +5, SR +5, PR +15, Awe +6, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 100,
MagLdr 80, Mag: N3H3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Ophan S5F2 49 - - NUW
Ophan x1 HP 55, Prot 21, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 27, MM 40, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Inanim, Magic, Trample, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, PR +25, Awe +6, SpSi, Patrol 50, Fire
Shield 11 AP dmg, Mag: H3, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 9 Call Merkavah S7F3 222 - - NUW
Chayot x1 HP 55, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Astral Magic +6, Magic -6, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Awe +7, SpSi, Sight
Vengeance 5 vs MR, Invulnerability 30, Fire Shield 13 AP dmg, Retinue 4 Ophans, Ldr 200,
MagLdr 180, Mag: F4A4E4S4H10, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Dirge for the Dead D3H1 25 - - NUW
Ditanu x1 HP 53, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 24, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 15, MM 21, WS, Eth,
Sacr, Und, NNEat, PiR, FR +5, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 10,
Mag: D1H1?1, Wpn: Dawn Blade, Gore
Conj 8 Banquet for the Dead D4H1 55 - - NUW
Malik x1 HP 63, Prot 16, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 24, Att 15, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 15, MM 21, WS, Eth,
Sacr, Und, NNEat, PiR, FR +10, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +10, SpSi, Ldr 150, UndLdr 270, MagLdr
60, Mag: D2B2H2?2, Wpn: Dawn Blade, Gore
Ditanu x4 HP 53, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 24, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 15, MM 21, WS, Eth,
Sacr, Und, NNEat, PiR, FR +5, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Mag: D1H1?1, Wpn: Dawn Blade,
Gore
Conj 3 Summon Mazzikim N1 3 - - NUW
Mazzik x10 HP 9, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Claws
175
[[page 176]]
Conj 5 Summon Lilot N4 15 - - NUW
Lilot x1 HP 22, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, Stealth 55, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 3 Summon Se'irim B2 23 - - NUW
Se'ir x5 HP 28, Prot 7, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 16, WS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Berserker +4, Wpn: Claw, Claw, Gore
Blood 4 Summon Shedim B3A1 28 - - NUW
Shed x3 HP 40, Prot 8, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Storm Power 2, SR +15, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning
National Rituals: Na'Ba (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Contact Jinn F2A1 18 - - NUW
Jinn x1 HP 17, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Eth, Glamour, Sacr, Magic, Stealth 65, Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, SpSi, Unseen,
Storm Immunity, Ldr 70, MagLdr 60, Mag: F2A2G1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 5 Summon Jinn Warriors F2A1 13 - - NUW
Jinn Warrior x3 HP 19, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 15, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Eth, Glamour, Sacr, Magic, Stealth 65, Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, SpSi, Unseen,
Storm Immunity, Mag: F2A2, Wpn: Enchanted Scimitar
Conj 8 Summon Marid F4A2 66 - -
Marid x1 HP 56, Prot 3, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 24, Att 15, Def 11, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Eth, Sacr, Magic, Amph, Magic Power 1, Heat pow 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, Fear +5, SpSi, Heat 5,
Fire Shield 12 AP dmg, Unseen, Storm Immunity, Ldr 90, MagLdr 150, Mag: F4A4W3E1G2,
Wpn: Fist, Gore
Conj 6 Summon Hinn A1F1 4 - - NUW
Hinn x5+ HP 15, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, WS, Eth,
Magic, Stealth 40, FR +15, SR +15, SpSi, Heat 3, Unseen, Wpn: Bite
Conj 6 Contact Houri A2G1 26 - - NUW
Houri x1 HP 17, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Fly, Eth,
Glamour, Sacr, Magic, Stealth 65, Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, SpSi, Seduction ,
Unseen, Storm Immunity, Ldr 30, MagLdr 80, Mag: F2A1N2G2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Summon Si'lat A2 21 - - NUW
Si'lat x1 HP 14, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Fly, Eth,
Glamour, Magic, Stealth 65, Magic Power 1, FR +5, SR +15, SpSi, Seduction , Storm Immunity,
Ldr 20, MagLdr 50, Mag: F1A2G1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Summon Binn W1A1 4 - - NUW
Binn x5+ HP 19, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Eth,
Magic, Stealth 40, SR +5, PR +5, SpSi, Unseen, Wpn: Claw, Bite
Thau 5 Awaken Jinn Block E1H1 5 - -
Jinn Block x1 HP 50, Prot 25, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Inanim,
Magic, Amph, NNEat, SlR, PiR, Research -8, Master Smith -1, FR +15, PR +25, SpSi, MagLdr 70,
Mag: F1A1H1, Wpn:
Blood 5 Summon Ifrit B1F3 58 - - NUW
Ifrit x1 HP 36, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Eth, Sacr, Magic, Magic Power 1, Heat pow 1, FR +50, SR +5, CR -5, SpSi, Heat 4, Fire Shield 10
AP dmg, Unseen, Storm Immunity, Ldr 80, MagLdr 60, Mag: F3A2, Wpn: Enchanted Scimitar
176
[[page 177]]
Blood 6 Summon Shaytan B1F3 73 - - NUW
Shaytan x1 HP 26, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Fly,
Eth, Glamour, Magic, Stealth 65, Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, SpSi, Spy, Unseen, Storm
Immunity, Ldr 70, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 70, Mag: F2A2B2, Wpn: Fist
Blood 4 Feast for Ghuls B1 16 - - NUW
Ghul x5+ HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 20, WS, Demon,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40, Regen 50%, FR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Claw
Blood 5 Summon Ghulah B1 31 - - NUW
Ghulah x1 HP 13, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 20, WS, Demon,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40, Regen 50%, FR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Assassin, Blood Searcher 1, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 60, MagLdr 20, Mag: D1B1, Wpn: Claw
National Rituals: Uruk (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Summon Ugallu A3 24 - - NUW
Ugallu x1 HP 30, Prot 4, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SR +15, SpSi, Storm Immunity, Ldr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: A3, Wpn: Apotropaic
Dagger, Apotropaic Mace, Bite
Conj 7 Call Anzus W2E2 4 - - NUW
Anzu x2 HP 82, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 21, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 40, MS, Fly, FR
+10, SR +15, Siege Strength +10, Patrol 10, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Bite, Talons, Talons, Water
Breath, Flaming Breath
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
Conj 4 Summon Kusarikkus E1 4 - - NUW
Kusarikku x2 HP 34, Prot 9, MR 15, Mor 16, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, Sacr, Magic,
NNEat, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Apotropaic Spear, Gore
Conj 8 Call Apkallu S5 60 - - NUW
Umu-apkallu x1 HP 36, Prot 1, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 32, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, Research +10, Disease Healing 1, SR +15, Ldr 150, MagLdr 230, Mag:
A3W3E2S4N2H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 3 Herd of Buffaloes N2 8 - - NUW
Buffalo x5+ HP 43, Prot 5, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 18, Trample,
Berserker +2, Wpn: Hoof, Gore
National Rituals: Ind (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Call the Birds of Splendor F2N1 7 - - NUW
Yllerion (x1) HP 60, Prot 12, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 34, Fly, FR +25,
SR +15, Awe +5, Siege Strength +10, Patrol 25, Fire Shield 8 AP dmg, Retinue 3d6 Random
Birds, Ldr 100, Wpn: Burning Beak, Burning Claw, Burning Claw
Conj 3 Call Cyclops Tribe E2 9 - - NUW
Cyclops x5+ HP 42, Prot 9, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, Wpn: Great
Club
Conj 4 Call Malakh S2 9 - - NUW
Malakh x1 HP 13, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 60, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +4, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
177
[[page 178]]
Conj 6 Call Hashmal S3F1 21 - - NUW
Hashmal x1 HP 27, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, NNEat, FR +25, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Inquisitor, Fire Shield 10
AP dmg, Ldr 150, MagLdr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 7 Call Arel S4N1 39 - - NUW
Arel x1 HP 33, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 8, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Healing 3, FR +5, SR +5, PR +15, Awe +6, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 100,
MagLdr 80, Mag: N3H3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Ophan S5F2 49 - - NUW
Ophan x1 HP 55, Prot 21, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 27, MM 40, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Inanim, Magic, Trample, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, PR +25, Awe +6, SpSi, Patrol 50, Fire
Shield 11 AP dmg, Mag: H3, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 9 Call Merkavah S7F3 222 - - NUW
Chayot x1 HP 55, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Astral Magic +6, Magic -6, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Awe +7, SpSi, Sight
Vengeance 5 vs MR, Invulnerability 30, Fire Shield 13 AP dmg, Retinue 4 Ophans, Ldr 200,
MagLdr 180, Mag: F4A4E4S4H10, Wpn: Fist
Blood 9 Release Lord of Civilization B8 177 - - NUW
Grigori (x1) HP 66, Prot 13, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 60, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Fear +10, SpSi, Damage Reversal 3
vs MR, Invulnerability 30, Fortune Teller 20, Ldr 150, UndLdr 40, MagLdr 260, Mag:
E4S4B4H3, Wpn: Fist
National Rituals: Bandar Log (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Angiri F2 5 - - NUW
Angiri x5+ HP 23, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
FR +15, Awe +1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 3 Summon Nagas W2E1 15 - - NUW
Naga Warrior x9 HP 19, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 8, SS, Sacr,
Magic, Amph, PR +10, SpSi, Wpn: Hypnotize, Falchion, Venomous Fangs, Poison Spit
Conj 4 Contact Nagini W2E1 25 - - NUW
Nagini x1 HP 18, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Sacr,
Magic, Amph, Water Magic +1, PR +10, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: W1E1G1H1?1, Wpn:
Hypnotize, Fist, Venomous Bite, Poison Spit
Conj 5 Contact Nagaraja W2E1 30 - - NUW
Nagaraja x1 HP 25, Prot 16, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 8, SS, Sacr,
Magic, Amph, Water Magic +1, PR +10, SpSi, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag: W1E1G1H2, Wpn:
Hypnotize, Falchion, Venomous Bite, Poison Spit
Conj 6 Contact Nagarishi W3E1 40 - - NUW
Nagarishi x1 HP 22, Prot 8, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 10, SS, Sacr,
Magic, Amph, Water Magic +1, PR +10, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 110, Mag: W2E2S1N1G1H1?1,
Wpn: Hypnotize, Kryss, Venomous Bite, Poison Spit
Conj 3 Summon Apsaras S2 3 - - NUW
Apsara x5+ HP 20, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +4, Wpn: Kick
178
[[page 179]]
Conj 4 Summon Vidyadhara S2 15 - - NUW
Vidyadhara x1 HP 21, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: A1S2, Wpn: Kryss, Kick
Conj 5 Summon Gandharvas S2 15 - - NUW
Gandharva x6 HP 25, Prot 18, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +2, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 6 Summon Garudas S2 21 - - NUW
Garuda x6 HP 23, Prot 18, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, PR +15, Awe +2, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 6 Summon Maruts S2 18 - - NUW
Marut x3 HP 29, Prot 15, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Storm Power 1, FR +15, SR +15, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Apotropaic Sword, Kick,
Lightning
Conj 6 Summon Kinnara S3 25 - - NUW
Kinnara x1 HP 30, Prot 3, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +3, Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: A2S2H2, Wpn: Kick
Conj 7 Summon Siddha S4 35 - - NUW
Siddha x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 100, Sacr, Magic,
Ambidex 4, Awe +3, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 90, Mag: A2S3H3, Wpn: Fist, Kick
Conj 8 Summon Devata S5 45 - - NUW
Devata x1 HP 28, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 12, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 5, Awe +5, SpSi, Ldr 150, MagLdr 80, Mag: A3S2H3, Wpn: Spear, Falchion, Axe,
Kick
Conj 9 Summon Devala S5 55 - - NUW
Devala x1 HP 20, Prot 1, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +4, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: S3H4, Wpn: Kick
Conj 9 Summon Rudra S5 55 - - NUW
Rudra x1 HP 32, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Research -20, Forge Bonus -5, Ambidex 5, Storm Power 2, FR +15, SR +15, Fear +5, SpSi,
Storm Immunity, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 60, Mag: F3A3D3H1, Wpn: Apotropaic Sword, Kick,
Plague Bow, Lightning
Conj 2 Host of Ganas D1 9 - - NUW
Gana x20+ HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spectral Club
Conj 5 Summon Vetalas D2 10 - -
Possessed Corpse x15 HP 22, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Inanim, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Mace
Conj 4 Contact Yaksha N2E1 25 - - NUW
Yaksha x1 HP 28, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: E3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 4 Contact Yakshini N2W1 25 - - NUW
Yakshini x1 HP 23, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Amph, Awe +2, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Fist, Kick
Conj 5 Summon Kimpurushas N2S1 15 - - NUW
Kimpurusha x6 HP 25, Prot 15, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +2, DV 50, Wpn: Falchion, Kick, Bite
179
[[page 180]]
Blood 1 Summon Rakshasas B1 8 - - NUW
Rakshasa x3 HP 28, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Blood 2 Feast of Flesh B1N1 50 - - NUW
Praghasa x18 HP 35, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 22, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Mace
Blood 3 Summon Asrapas B2 8 - - NUW
Asrapa x3 HP 19, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, Berserker +3, Mag: B1H1, Wpn: Athame, Kick
Blood 4 Summon Rakshasa B2 21 - - NUW
Warriors
Rakshasa Warrior x5 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Iron Cudgel
Blood 5 Summon Sandhyabalas B2D1 25 - - NUW
Sandhyabala x3 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Chaos Power 1, Dark Power 1, FR -10, Wpn: Moon Blade
Blood 7 Summon Samanishada B3D1 35 - - NUW
Samanishada x1 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Ambidex 2, Chaos Power 1, Dark Power 2, FR -10, Assassin, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 50, Wpn: Moon Blade, Duskdagger
Blood 6 Summon Dakini B4A1 81 - - NUW
Dakini x1 HP 23, Prot 12, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, Fear +5, SpSi, Damage Reversal 1 v MR, Ldr 50, UndLdr 90, MagLdr 70,
Mag: A3D1B3H2, Wpn: Athame, Kick
Blood 8 Summon Mandeha B5D2 133 - - NUW
Mandeha x1 HP 65, Prot 15, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 24, Att 15, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 15, MM 26, FS, Fly,
Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 2, Dark Power 3, FR -10, Fear +5, Sleep Aura 15, SpSi, Ldr
50, UndLdr 290, MagLdr 50, Mag: A2D3B3H3, Wpn: Flesh Eater
Blood 8 Summon Danavas B5 70 - - NUW
Danava x3 HP 92, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 24, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 20, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Ambidex 8, Chaos Power 2, FR -5, Fear +5, SpSi, Mag: H2?2, Wpn: Unholy
Sword, Unholy Spear, Unholy Axe
Blood 8 Summon Daitya B5 45 - - NUW
Daitya x3 HP 82, Prot 13, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 20, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 2, FR -5, SpSi, Mag: H2?3, Wpn: Unholy Sword, Plague Bow
National Rituals: T'ien Ch'i (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Celestial Hounds A1S1 2 - - NUW
Celestial Hound x2 HP 25, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 20, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SR +15, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 6 Call Celestial Soldiers A2S1 15 - - NUW
Celestial Soldier x6 HP 38, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 10, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Glaive
Ench 5 Living Mercury W1E1 6 - -
Living Mercury x1 HP 140, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 50, Str 28, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Spi, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Aff Res 99, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Crush, Crush, Crush
180
[[page 181]]
Conj 1 Celestial Servant E1S1 1 - - NUW
Celestial Servant x1 HP 48, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Rake
Conj 6 Contact Huli Jing N2 30 - - NUW
Huli Jing x1 HP 11, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Stealth 80,
Magic Power 1, Spy, MagLdr 60, Mag: N1G3?1, Wpn: Dagger
Conj 3 Ambush of Tigers N2 9 - - NUW
Tiger x15+ HP 22, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, DV 50,
Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 3 Herd of Buffaloes N2 8 - - NUW
Buffalo x5+ HP 43, Prot 5, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 18, Trample,
Berserker +2, Wpn: Hoof, Gore
National Rituals: Shinuyama (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Aka-Oni F1D1 7 - - NUW
Aka-Oni x5+ HP 14, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: Great Club, Throw Flames
Conj 3 Summon Konoha Tengus A1E1 3 - - NUW
Konoha Tengu x5+ HP 12, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 5 Contact Dai Tengu A2E1 55 - - NUW
Dai Tengu x1 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag: A3E1N1H2, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Lightning
Tengu Warrior x10 HP 13, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 22, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Karasu Tengu x15 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 2 Summon Ao-Oni W1D1 7 - - NUW
Ao-Oni x5+ HP 14, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, CR +5, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: Great Club, Cold
Conj 5 Contact Nushi W2N1 25 - - NUW
Nushi x1 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Awe +3,
Homesickness 20, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: W3D1N2, Wpn: Claw
Conj 4 Summon Oni E1D1 8 - - NUW
Oni x5+ HP 24, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: No-Dachi, Javelin
Conj 4 Summon Omukade E2D1 5 - - NUW
Omukade x1 HP 47, Prot 20, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 15, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, FS, MS, PR
+15, Fear +5, DV 100, Wpn: Venomous Bite
Conj 1 Summon Ko-Oni D1 4 - - NUW
Ko-Oni x5+ HP 9, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: Club
Conj 5 Summon Kuro-Oni D2F1 9 - - NUW
Kuro-Oni x5+ HP 24, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, SpSi, Pillage +2, Wpn: No-Dachi, Throw Flames, Poison
Spit
181
[[page 182]]
Conj 6 Summon Oni General D2F1 20 - - NUW
Oni Shugo x1 HP 30, Prot 21, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 10, MS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Research -4, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, SpSi, Pillage +3, Retinue 1d6
Wolves, Ldr 45, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 10, Mag: D2?1, Wpn: No-Dachi, Throw Flames, Javelin
Conj 6 Summon Gozu Mezu D3 6 - - NUW
Ox-head x1 HP 46, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Demon,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Gore, Soul Catcher
Horse-face x1 HP 38, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 15, Def 13, Prec 15, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Demon,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Soul Catcher
Conj 4 Ghost General D3 10 - -
Shura x1 HP 20, Prot 17, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Float, Eth,
Spi, Und, Amph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 100, UndLdr 150, Wpn: Bane
Blade
Conj 8 Summon Dai Oni D4F1 45 - - NUW
Dai Oni x1 HP 50, Prot 19, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 20, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, MS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Research -12, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Pillage +5, Retinue
1d6 Wolves, Ldr 90, UndLdr 300, MagLdr 60, Mag: F2E2D3H1?1, Wpn: Enchanted No-Dachi,
Throw Flames, Javelin
Conj 3 Summon Okami N1 4 - - NUW
Okami x10+ HP 23, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS,
Stealth 40, Magic Power 1, CR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Bite
Conj 2 Summon Karasu Tengus N1A1 2 - - NUW
Karasu Tengu x3 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 3 Contact Bakeneko N2 8 - - NUW
Bakeneko x1 HP 4, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 4, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
80, Magic Power 1, UndLdr 50, Mag: ?1, Wpn: Claw, Bite
Conj 5 Contact Mujina N2 21 - - NUW
Mujina x1 HP 7, Prot 2, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 5, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS,
Stealth 80, Magic Power 1, SpSi, MagLdr 40, Mag: E1N1G2, Wpn: Bite
Conj 5 Contact Tanuki N2 26 - - NUW
Tanuki x1 HP 6, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 5, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS,
Stealth 80, Magic Power 1, Heretic 1, MagLdr 60, Mag: E1N1G2?1, Wpn: Bite
Conj 6 Contact Jorogumo N2D1 32 - - NUW
Jorogumo x1 HP 26, Prot 14, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 18, FS, Stealth
80, Magic Power 1, PR +15, Retinue 2d6 Large Spiders, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag:
W1D2N2G1?1, Wpn: Venomous Bite, Web, Web Spit
Conj 6 Contact Kitsune N2 30 - - NUW
Kitsune x1 HP 5, Prot 2, MR 18, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
80, Magic Power 1, MagLdr 40, Mag: N1G3?1, Wpn: Bite
Conj 3 Ambush of Tigers N2 9 - - NUW
Tiger x15+ HP 22, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, DV 50,
Wpn: Bite, Claw
182
[[page 183]]
National Rituals: Caelum (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Call Ahurani S2W1 12 - - NUW
Ahurani x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Recup, Magic, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Disease Healing 1, CR +5, PR +15, Awe +2, SpSi, Gift
of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W2H1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 5 Summon Yazatas S2 12 - - NUW
Yazad x6 HP 16, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 7 Call Fravashi S3 30 - - NUW
Ancestral Fravashi x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 4, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, Awe +4, MagLdr 70, Mag: A3S2H3, Wpn: Sacred Circlet
Conj 6 Call Celestial Yazad S4 40 - - NUW
Yazad of Water x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Amph, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +3, SpSi, Ldr 100, MagLdr 90, Mag: W4S2H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Amesha Spenta S5 60 - - NUW
Spenta of Animals (x1) HP 44, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SR +15, Awe +5, Animal Awe +8, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 150, MagLdr 150,
Mag: N5H3, Wpn: Magic Staff
Conj 5 Call Daevas D2F1 12 - - NUW
Daeva x6 HP 16, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 5 Call Jahi D3F1 15 - - NUW
Jahi x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SpSi, Spy, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr
50, Wpn: Claw
Conj 6 Call Yata D3F2 40 - - NUW
Daeva of Shooting Stars x1 HP 17, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 200, MagLdr 60, Mag:
S3D3H2, Wpn: Claw, Stellar Bolt
Conj 8 Call Greater Daeva D4F2 60 - - NUW
Daeva of Frozen Minds (x1) HP 44, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Heretic 5, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 180,
UndLdr 200, MagLdr 130, Mag: F3D4H3, Wpn: Magic Staff
National Rituals: Nazca (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Condors A2 8 - - NUW
Condor x10+ HP 18, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 34, MS, Fly, Sacr,
Stealth 140, SR +15, Siege Strength +1, Patrol 20, Wpn: Talons, Talons, Beak
Conj 5 Summon Huacas S2 12 - - NUW
Huaca x5 HP 16, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, FR +5, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 5 Summon Supayas D2 8 - - NUW
Supaya x5 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Float,
Eth, Spi, Sacr, Und, Amph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Spectral Spear
National Rituals: Mictlan (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
183
[[page 184]]
Conj 4 Summon Jade Serpents W2 3 - -
Jade Serpent x2 HP 62, Prot 12, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, SS, Sacr,
Amph, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Conj 7 Summon Tlaloque W4 60 - - NUW
Tlaloque of the North (x1) HP 48, Prot 5, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 16, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Supply 100, SpSi, Ldr 50, UndLdr 80, MagLdr 90, Mag: A2W4B3H3, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Conj 1 Summon Jaguar Toads N1H1 2 - - NUW
Jaguar Toad x3 HP 21, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +15, Wpn: Head Butt, Poison Spit
Conj 6 Contact Couatl N1S1 40 - - NUW
Couatl x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, FS, SS, Fly,
Sacr, Magic, PR +15, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 140, Mag: S3N3H2, Wpn: Venomous
Fangs
Conj 3 Summon Jaguars N2H1 20 - - NUW
Jaguar x25 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 5 Summon Monster Toad N2 1 - - NUW
Monster Toad x1 HP 63, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +25, Wpn: Head Butt
Blood 2 Bind Beast Bats B1 8 - - NUW
Beast Bat x3 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 4 Bind Jaguar Fiends B1F1 16 - - NUW
Ozelotl x3 HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
Blood 5 Contact Civateteo B2D2 36 - - NUW
Civateteo x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Eth, Sacr,
Und, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 200, MagLdr 10, Mag:
D1B1H2, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 6 Bind Tzitzimitl B2S2 10 - - NUW
Tzitzimitl x1 HP 43, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Scorpion Tail, Stellar Bolt
Blood 6 Contact Tlahuelpuchi B3 42 - - NUW
Tlahuelpuchi x1 HP 17, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 28, Fly, NNEat,
Stealth 50, DV 100, Assassin, Patience +2, UndLdr 70, MagLdr 30, Mag: D1N1B2, Wpn: Life
Drain
Blood 7 Contact Onaqui B4 101 - - NUW
Onaqui x1 HP 31, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 2, Retinue 2 Beast Bats, Dominion Summoner 1+
Beast Bats, Ldr 100, UndLdr 190, MagLdr 60, Mag: D2N1B3H1?1, Wpn: Venomous Fangs,
Claw, Claw
Beast Bat x8 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 8 Rain of Jaguars B6F2 40 - - NUW
Ozelotl x14+ HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
184
[[page 185]]
National Rituals: Xibalba (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Chaac A4 75 - - NUW
Chaac of the North (x1) HP 32, Prot 3, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, Supply 50, SR +15, Storm Immunity, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: A4W3H3,
Wpn: Thunder Axe, Lightning
Conj 4 Summon Jade Serpents W2 3 - -
Jade Serpent x2 HP 62, Prot 12, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, SS, Sacr,
Amph, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Conj 1 Summon Jaguar Toads N1H1 2 - - NUW
Jaguar Toad x3 HP 21, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +15, Wpn: Head Butt, Poison Spit
Conj 5 Summon Monster Toad N2 1 - - NUW
Monster Toad x1 HP 63, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +25, Wpn: Head Butt
Conj 7 Summon Balam N4 60 - - NUW
Balam of the West (x1) HP 49, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, Ldr 100, UndLdr 130, MagLdr 70, Mag: D2N4B2H3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
National Rituals: C'tis (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
Conj 7 Contact Couatl N1S1 40 - - NUW
Couatl x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, FS, SS, Fly,
Sacr, Magic, PR +15, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 140, Mag: S3N3H2, Wpn: Venomous
Fangs
Conj 4 Sacred Crocodile N2W2 1 - - NUW
Sacred Crocodile x1 HP 73, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 21, Att 11, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 10, SS, Sacr, Wpn:
Bite
Conj 5 Summon Monster Toads N2 5 - - NUW
Monster Toad x3 HP 63, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +25, Wpn: Head Butt
National Rituals: Machaka (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Herd of Elephants N2 20 - - NUW
Elephant x5+ HP 61, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 8, Str 20, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn:
Tusk
Conj 4 God Brood N2D1 12 - - NUW
Hunter Spider x6 HP 55, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Magic, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Web
185
[[page 186]]
National Rituals: Phaeacia (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Contact Hesperide F3S1 35 - - NUW
Hesperide x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Recup,
Supply 30, Disease Healing 3, Awe +6, Inspirational +1, Ldr 80, MagLdr 110, Mag: F3S3N2H2,
Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Call Ladon F3N2 15 - - NUW
Drakon Hesperios (x1) HP 144, Prot 20, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 24, Att 15, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 10, MM 16, SS, Regen
20%, PR +15, Fear +10, Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Venomous Fangs, Venomous Fangs
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Cnst 4 Dogs of Gold and Silver E1 7 - -
Kuon Argyreos x1 HP 17, Prot 25, MR 12, Mor 50, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 24, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Patrol 15,
Wpn: Bite
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Cnst 6 Craft Keledone E2S2 5 - -
Keledone x1 HP 19, Prot 25, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Inanim, Magic,
Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Spell Singer, Wpn:
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
National Rituals: Vanheim (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the East (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 2, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 90, Mag: A4E3N2, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 4 Awaken Draugar D2 12 - - NUW
Draug x4 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
National Rituals: Vanarus (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Firebird F1S1 2 - - NUW
Firebird x1 HP 8, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 7, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 28, FS, MS, Fly,
Magic, FR +15, Wpn: Talons, Fire Flare
Conj 5 Summon Zmey F2 5 - - NUW
Zmey x1 HP 45, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 28, MS, Fly, FR
+15, Wpn: Bite, Bite, Bite, Drake Fire
Conj 2 Summon Simargl A1 1 - - NUW
Simargl x1 HP 13, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Patrol
10, Wpn: Bite
186
[[page 187]]
Conj 7 Contact Cloud Vila A4 40 - - NUW
Cloud Vila x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Stealth 50, Healing 1, SR +15, CR +5, Seduction , Storm Immunity, MagLdr 70, Mag:
A3S1N2, Wpn: Fist, Lightning Strike
Conj 4 Summon Rusalka W1D1 16 - - NUW
Rusalka x1 HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Und, Amph,
Stealth 60, CR +15, PR +25, Seduction , Gift of Water Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 10, UndLdr
60, MagLdr 10, Mag: W1D1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 4 Send Vodyanoy W2 20 4 -
Vodyanoy x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 10, Aqua, Stealth
40, Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3N1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Contact Beregina W3E1 35 - -
Beregina x1 HP 8, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Magic, Amph,
Awe +3, SpSi, Gift of Water Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3E1N2, Wpn:
Fist
Conj 5 Send Bukavac W4 5 4 - Anon
Bukavac x1 HP 162, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 10, Magic,
Trample, Aqua, Fear +5, Wpn: Gore, Tentacle, Tentacle
Conj 3 Contact Sirin S2 8 - - NUW
Sirin x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Stealth 50, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Conj 4 Contact Alkonost S2 15 - - NUW
Alkonost x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr, SR
+15, Awe +5, Inspirational +2, Ldr 50, Mag: H3, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Conj 5 Contact Gamayun S3 25 - - NUW
Gamayun x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Research +6, Awe +3, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: A2S2H2, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Conj 4 Summon Likho D1 10 - - NUW
Likho x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 8, Str 12, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Stealth 60,
Wpn: Claw, Curse
Conj 4 Awaken Draugar D2 12 - - NUW
Draug x4 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
Conj 7 Contact Mountain Vila N4 40 - - NUW
Mountain Vila x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 16, FS, MS,
Sacr, Stealth 50, Healing 2, SR +15, CR +5, Seduction , Rider 3, MagLdr 70, Mag: A2S1N3, Wpn:
Fist, Vine Bow, Mount: Sacred Stag
Conj 8 Contact Leshiy N6 60 - - NUW
Leshiy x1 HP 24, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, FS, Magic,
Magic -1, CR +5, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: A2W1E2N3, Wpn: Gore, Fist
187
[[page 188]]
National Rituals: Jotunheim (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the North (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 1, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 90, Mag: A4W2E3, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 5 Summon Rimvaettir W2 5 - - NUW
Rimvaetti x5+ HP 10, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Stealth
40, Cold pow 1, CR +25, Ice Prot 1, Chill 2, Wpn: Hatchet
Conj 3 Summon Glosos D2 13 - - NUW
Gloso x9 HP 28, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Trample, Stealth 50, FR +25, DV 100, Heat 3, Wpn: Poisonous Gore
Conj 4 Awaken Jotun Draugar D2 15 - - NUW
Jotun Draug x3 HP 70, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 23, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
Conj 4 Brood of Garm N2 10 - - NUW
Jotun Wolf x5 HP 30, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 23, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr, CR
+15, Fear +5, Berserker +3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Blood 6 Winter's Call B3W2 86 - - NUW
Niefel Jarl x1 HP 75, Prot 14, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 26, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Cold
pow 1, SR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 3, Chill 15, Ldr 150, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3D2H2?1,
Wpn: Ice Blade
National Rituals: Nidavangr (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Command Draugar D2 12 - - NUW
Draug x4 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
National Rituals: Ys (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Herd of Morvarc'h G2W1 12 - - UW
Morvarc'h x10 HP 25, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour,
Sacr, Amph, FR +15, DV 50, Army Sail 5 size pnts, Wpn: Tail Flipper
National Rituals: Pelagia (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Summon Daktyl E3A1 30 - -
Daktyl x1 HP 9, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 12, Sacr, Magic,
Amph, Master Smith 1, Ldr 10, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 50, Mag: A1W1E2?1, Wpn: Enchanted
Hammer
Conj 5 Summon Hekateride N3W1 30 - -
Hekateride x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr,
Recup, Magic, Amph, Supply 30, Awe +6, Inspirational +2, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 110,
Mag: W2N3H2?1, Wpn: Fist
188
[[page 189]]
National Rituals: Atlantis (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Summon Monster Fish W3 6 - - UW
Monster Fish x1 HP 128, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 25, Att 12, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 10, Aqua, Fear
+5, Wpn: Swallow
National Rituals: Arcoscephale (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Cnst 6 Craft Keledone E2S2 5 - -
Keledone x1 HP 19, Prot 25, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Inanim, Magic,
Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Spell Singer, Wpn:
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
Conj 5 Procession of the D3 13 - - NUW
Underworld
Lampad x15 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, SpSi,
Invulnerability 15, Patrol 5, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Banefire Torch
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
National Rituals: Phlegra (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Conj 6 Bind Keres D2 12 - - NUW
Ker x3 HP 17, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invisibility, Storm Immunity, Mag:
D1B1, Wpn: Ghost Rending Claw, Ghost Rending Claw
Conj 5 Procession of the D3 13 - - NUW
Underworld
Lampad x15 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Recup, SpSi,
Invulnerability 15, Patrol 5, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Banefire Torch
189
[[page 190]]
National Rituals: Pangaea (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
National Rituals: Pythium (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Contact Lar N1 16 - - NUW
Lar x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Eth,
Sacr, Recup, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40, Supply 15, PR +15, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
W1E1N2, Wpn: Fist
Ench 5 Awaken Hamadryad N4 25 - - NUW
Hamadryad x1 HP 110, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 8, Def 0, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, FS, Magic,
NNEat, BlR, PiR, Research -4, Growth Power 1, FR -5, Retinue 3d6 Harpies, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80,
Mag: N3, Wpn: Branch
Conj 8 Daughter of Typhon N5D2 30 - - NUW
Daughter of Typhon (x1) HP 220, Prot 13, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 15, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 12, SS, Sacr,
Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR +25, Fear +10, Wpn: Lesser Heads, Lesser Heads,
Lesser Heads, Lesser Heads, Immortal Head
Blood 1 Orgy B1N1 1 - - NUW
Satyr x1 HP 15, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup,
Stealth 40, Seduction , Berserker +3, Ldr 50, Wpn: Fist, Hoof
Maenad x6 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 18, FS, Patrol
-1, Berserker +1, Wpn: Claw
National Rituals: Lemuria (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 0 Revive Shadow Tribune D1 8 - - NUW
Shadow Tribune x1 HP 6, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 6, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Float, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, Amph, NNEat, Dark Power 2, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 120, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Paralyze
Conj 0 Revive Lemur Centurion D1 5 - - NUW
Lemur Centurion x1 HP 25, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 17, Str 13, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 21, Eth, Spi,
Und, Amph, NNEat, Magic Power 1, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 100, UndLdr
150, Wpn: Short Sword
Conj 0 Revive Lemur Senator D2 15 - - NUW
Lemur Senator x1 HP 28, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 15, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, Amph, NNEat, Magic Power 1, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 100,
UndLdr 190, Mag: H2, Wpn: Steal Strength
Conj 0 Revive Lemur Acolyte D2 11 - - NUW
Lemur Acolyte x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 17, Str 12, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, Magically Attuned Research, Magic Power 1, CR +25, PR
+25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 80, Mag: D1H1, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 0 Revive Lemur Consul D3 25 - - NUW
Lemur Consul x1 HP 33, Prot 14, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 16, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 21, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, Amph, NNEat, Magic Power 1, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 150,
UndLdr 260, Mag: H3, Wpn: Short Sword
190
[[page 191]]
Conj 0 Revive Lemur Thaumaturg D3 20 - - NUW
Lemur Thaumaturg x1 HP 25, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, Magically Attuned Research, Magic Power 1, CR +25, PR
+25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 20, Mag: S1D2H2, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 0 Revive Grand Lemur D3 50 - - NUW
Grand Lemur x1 HP 25, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 20, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, PAmph, NNEat, Stealth 40, Magically Attuned Research, Magic Power 1, CR +25, PR
+25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 270, MagLdr 40, Mag: S2D3H3?1, Wpn: Magic Staff
National Rituals: Man (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Summon Bean Sidhe D1 25 - - NUW
Bean Sidhe x1 HP 13, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 13, MM 22, FS, Eth,
Glamour, Und, NNEat, Stealth 85, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Assassin, Patience +2, Spell
Singer, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: D1G1?1, Wpn: Claw, Wail of Doom
Conj 2 Summon Black Dogs D2 5 - - NUW
Black Dog x20 HP 14, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Stealth 60,
Dark Power 2, DV 100, Wpn: Bite
Conj 4 Summon Barghests D2 7 - - NUW
Barghest x14 HP 28, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, Sacr, Stealth
60, Dark Power 3, DV 100, Curses attacker, Wpn: Venomous Bite
Conj 4 Herd of Unicorns G2N1 10 - - NUW
Unicorn x10 HP 25, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 30, MM 28, FS, Sacr,
Recup, Stealth 40, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn: Alicorn, Hoof
Conj 3 Summon Cu Sidhe G2 5 - - NUW
Cu Sidhe x10 HP 26, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite
National Rituals: Ulm (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 0 Sanguine Heritage B3D3 44 - - NUW
Blood Countess (x1) HP 16, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Und,
NNEat, Stealth 40, BlR, SlR, Undead Regen 10%, FR -5, CR +15, PR +25, DV 100, Blood
Searcher 2, Invulnerability 25, Dominion Summoner 1+ Thralls, Ldr 100, UndLdr 130, MagLdr
80, Mag: B3, Wpn: Life Drain
National Rituals: Agartha (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 5 Nightmare Construction F1D1 2 - - NUW
Flame Barrel Nightmare x1 HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 24, MM 22, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR +25, Fire Explosion on Death, Wpn: Hoof
Ench 4 Flame Corpse Construction F1D1 1 - - NUW
Flame Corpse x1 HP 14, Prot 15, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 14, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 18, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, Ambidex 2, CR +15, PR +25, DV 50, Fire Explosion on Death, Wpn: Short
Sword, Short Sword
Ench 2 Iron Corpse Reanimation E1D1 2 - - NUW
Iron Corpse x5+ HP 15, Prot 16, MR 7, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 18, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Ambidex 2, CR +15, PR +25, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword, Short Sword
191
[[page 192]]
Ench 2 Reanimate Ancestor E2D2 3 - - NUW
Iron Ancestor x1 HP 25, Prot 19, MR 14, Mor 30, Str 14, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 18, Inanim, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Ambidex 2, CR +15, PR +25, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, Wpn: Short Sword,
Short Sword
Ench 6 Ktonian Legion E2D2 15 - - NUW
Iron Corpse x30+ HP 15, Prot 16, MR 7, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 3, MM 14, Inanim, Und,
Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, Ambidex 2, CR +15, PR +25, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword, Short Sword
Conj 3 Summon Penumbrals D1E1 6 - -
Penumbral x6 HP 30, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 15, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Spi, Und,
Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 3 Awaken Shard Wights D1E1 10 - - NUW
Shard Wight x5+ HP 35, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 17, Str 17, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Shard Glaive
Conj 5 Summon Umbrals D2E1 8 - -
Umbral x6 HP 68, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Eth, Spi, Und,
Amph, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Life Drain
Conj 5 Awaken Sepulchral D2E1 3 - - NUW
Sepulchral x1 HP 69, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 17, Str 24, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 20, Sacr, Und,
Amph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Obsidian Glaive
Conj 6 Awaken Tomb Oracle D3E2 30 - - NUW
Tomb Oracle x1 HP 85, Prot 4, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 24, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 10, MM 22, Sacr, Und,
Amph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 50, UndLdr 310, MagLdr 40,
Mag: E3D3H3, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Conj 8 Hall of the Dead D5E1 25 - - NUW
Shard Wight x20+ HP 35, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 17, Str 17, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 16, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Shard Glaive
National Rituals: Marignon (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 4 Amalgamation of Fire and F2S1 10 - - NUW
Flesh
Alchemical Amalgam of Fire HP 17, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, FR +15,
x5+ Fire Explosion on Death, Wpn: Halberd
Alt 4 Amalgamation of Air and A2S1 10 - - NUW
Flesh
Alchemical Amalgam of Air HP 15, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Eth, SR +5,
x5+ Shock Explosion on Death, Wpn: Spectral Sword
Alt 4 Amalgamation of Water W2S1 10 - - NUW
and Flesh
Alchemical Amalgam of HP 17, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Amph,
Water x5+ Slime Explosion on Death, Wpn: Pearl Trident
Alt 4 Amalgamation of Earth and E2S1 10 - - NUW
Flesh
Alchemical Amalgam of HP 21, Prot 21, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Death Grab,
Earth x5+ Wpn: Iron Cudgel
Conj 5 Contact Angel of the Host S3 7 - - NUW
Angel of the Host x1 HP 17, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Wpn: Heavenly Sword
192
[[page 193]]
Conj 6 Angelic Choir S3 15 - - NUW
Angel of the Heavenly HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Choir x3 Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 7 Heavenly Wrath S3F1 35 - - NUW
Angel of Fury x1 HP 49, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 17, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Blood Vengeance 4 vs MR, Invulnerability 20, Wpn: Holy
Scourge
Conj 6 Contact Harbinger S4 25 - - NUW
Harbinger x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Ldr 100, MagLdr 80, Mag: A3H2,
Wpn: Fist, Heavenly Horn
Conj 7 Angelic Host S5 50 5 - NUW
Angel of the Host x6 HP 17, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 15, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Wpn: Heavenly Sword
Conj 9 Heavenly Choir S7F2 144 - - NUW
Seraph x1 HP 77, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Awe +7, SpSi, Sight Vengeance 5 vs MR, Invulnerability
30, Fire Shield 12 AP dmg, Ldr 240, MagLdr 260, Mag: F4A4S4H4, Wpn: Fist
Angel of the Heavenly HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Choir x9 Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H2, Wpn: Fist
Harbinger of the Choir x3 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Wpn: Fist, Heavenly Horn
Blood 1 Bind Harlequin B1 1 - - NUW
Demon Jester x1 HP 16, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Wpn: Claws, Sticks and Stones
Blood 7 Reascendance B4S1 88 - - NUW
Fallen Angel x1 HP 49, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Magic, NNEat, FR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 25, Ldr 180, UndLdr 280, MagLdr
110, Mag: F3D3B3, Wpn: Dark Fire Sword
National Rituals: Abysia (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
Ench 5 Reawaken Fossil E2D1 10 - -
Fossilized Giant x5+ HP 17, Prot 26, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 22, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Inanim, Und,
Magic, Mind, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, FR +5, CR +5, PR +25, Wpn: Fossilized Sword
Conj 2 Summon Abysian Ancestors D1F1 5 - - NUW
Smoulderghost x7 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 16, Str 13, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, WS, Eth, Spi,
Sacr, Und, NNEat, FR +25, PR +25, SpSi, Heat 3, Wpn: Spectral Axe
193
[[page 194]]
National Rituals: Ragha (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Call Ahurani S2W1 12 - - NUW
Ahurani x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Recup, Magic, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Disease Healing 1, CR +5, PR +15, Awe +2, SpSi, Gift
of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W2H1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 5 Summon Yazatas S2 12 - - NUW
Yazad x6 HP 16, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 7 Call Fravashi S3 30 - - NUW
Ancestral Fravashi x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 4, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, Awe +4, MagLdr 70, Mag: A3S2H3, Wpn: Sacred Circlet
Conj 6 Call Celestial Yazad S4 40 - - NUW
Yazad of Justice x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, FR +15, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +3, SpSi, Ldr 130, MagLdr 100, Mag: F3S3H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Amesha Spenta S5 60 - - NUW
Spenta of Animals (x1) HP 44, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SR +15, Awe +5, Animal Awe +8, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 150, MagLdr 150,
Mag: N5H3, Wpn: Magic Staff
Conj 5 Call Daevas D2F1 12 - - NUW
Daeva x6 HP 16, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 5 Call Jahi D3F1 15 - - NUW
Jahi x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SpSi, Spy, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr
50, Wpn: Claw
Conj 6 Call Yata D3F2 40 - - NUW
Daeva of Shooting Stars x1 HP 17, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 200, MagLdr 60, Mag:
S3D3H2, Wpn: Claw, Stellar Bolt
Conj 8 Call Greater Daeva D4F2 60 - - NUW
Daeva of Aging (x1) HP 39, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 65, Chaos Power 1, FR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 150,
UndLdr 350, Mag: D5H3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 3 Herd of Elephants N2 20 - - NUW
Elephant x5+ HP 61, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 8, Str 20, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn:
Tusk
National Rituals: Caelum (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Call Ahurani S2W1 12 - - NUW
Ahurani x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Recup, Magic, Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, Disease Healing 1, CR +5, PR +15, Awe +2, SpSi, Gift
of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W2H1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 5 Summon Yazatas S2 12 - - NUW
Yazad x6 HP 16, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Magic Lance
194
[[page 195]]
Conj 7 Call Fravashi S3 30 - - NUW
Ancestral Fravashi x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 4, MM 34, Fly, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, Awe +4, MagLdr 70, Mag: A3S2H3, Wpn: Sacred Circlet
Conj 6 Call Celestial Yazad S4 40 - - NUW
Yazad of the Stars x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +3, SpSi, Ldr 100, MagLdr 110, Mag: A2S4H2, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Amesha Spenta S5 60 - - NUW
Spenta of Sky and Metals HP 44, Prot 3, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
(x1) Magic, NNEat, SR +15, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Ldr 150, MagLdr 170, Mag: A4E3H4,
Wpn: Magic Staff
Conj 5 Call Daevas D2F1 12 - - NUW
Daeva x6 HP 16, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SR +5, Fear +5, Wpn: Magic Lance
Conj 5 Call Jahi D3F1 15 - - NUW
Jahi x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SpSi, Spy, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr
50, Wpn: Claw
Conj 6 Call Yata D3F2 40 - - NUW
Pairika x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Dream Seduction , Ldr 70,
UndLdr 180, MagLdr 50, Mag: F2D2B3H2, Wpn: Claw
Conj 8 Call Greater Daeva D4F2 60 - - NUW
Daeva of Discontent (x1) HP 39, Prot 10, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Supply 150, Chaos Power 1, FR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Spy, Invulnerability 15, Ldr
150, UndLdr 250, MagLdr 40, Mag: E4D3H4, Wpn: Fist
National Rituals: Gath (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Call Malakh S2 9 - - NUW
Malakh x1 HP 13, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 60, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +4, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Call Hashmal S3F1 21 - - NUW
Hashmal x1 HP 27, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, NNEat, FR +25, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Inquisitor, Fire Shield 10
AP dmg, Ldr 150, MagLdr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 7 Call Arel S4N1 39 - - NUW
Arel x1 HP 33, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 8, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Healing 3, FR +5, SR +5, PR +15, Awe +6, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 100,
MagLdr 80, Mag: N3H3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Ophan S5F2 49 - - NUW
Ophan x1 HP 55, Prot 21, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 27, MM 40, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Inanim, Magic, Trample, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, PR +25, Awe +6, SpSi, Patrol 50, Fire
Shield 11 AP dmg, Mag: H3, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 9 Call Merkavah S7F3 222 - - NUW
Chayot x1 HP 55, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Astral Magic +6, Magic -6, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Awe +7, SpSi, Sight
Vengeance 5 vs MR, Invulnerability 30, Fire Shield 13 AP dmg, Retinue 4 Ophans, Ldr 200,
MagLdr 180, Mag: F4A4E4S4H10, Wpn: Fist
195
[[page 196]]
Ench 5 Memories of Stone D2E1 10 - -
Fossil Warrior x5+ HP 17, Prot 26, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Inanim, Und,
Magic, PAmph, NNEat, PiR, FR +5, CR +5, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Fossilized Sword
Conj 3 Summon Mazzikim N1 3 - - NUW
Mazzik x10 HP 9, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Claws
Conj 5 Summon Lilot N4 15 - - NUW
Lilot x1 HP 22, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, WS, Fly,
Demon, Stealth 55, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 3 Scapegoats B1 8 - - NUW
Se'ir x2 HP 28, Prot 7, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 16, WS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Berserker +4, Wpn: Claw, Claw, Gore
Blood 4 Summon Shedim B3A1 28 - - NUW
Shed x3 HP 40, Prot 8, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Storm Power 2, SR +15, Wpn: Thunder Fist, Lightning
National Rituals: Patala (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Angiri F2 5 - - NUW
Angiri x5+ HP 23, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
FR +15, Awe +1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 3 Summon Apsaras S2 3 - - NUW
Apsara x5+ HP 20, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +4, Wpn: Kick
Conj 4 Summon Vidyadhara S2 15 - - NUW
Vidyadhara x1 HP 21, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, Awe +2, Storm Immunity, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: A1S2, Wpn: Kryss, Kick
Conj 5 Summon Gandharvas S2 15 - - NUW
Gandharva x6 HP 25, Prot 18, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +2, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 6 Summon Maruts S2 18 - - NUW
Marut x3 HP 29, Prot 15, MR 17, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Storm Power 1, FR +15, SR +15, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Apotropaic Sword, Kick,
Lightning
Conj 6 Summon Kinnara S3 25 - - NUW
Kinnara x1 HP 30, Prot 3, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +3, Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: A2S2H2, Wpn: Kick
Conj 7 Summon Siddha S4 35 - - NUW
Siddha x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 100, Sacr, Magic,
Ambidex 4, Awe +3, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 90, Mag: A2S3H3, Wpn: Fist, Kick
Conj 8 Summon Devata S5 45 - - NUW
Devata x1 HP 28, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 12, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 5, Awe +5, SpSi, Ldr 150, MagLdr 80, Mag: A3S2H3, Wpn: Spear, Falchion, Axe,
Kick
Conj 9 Summon Devala S5 55 - - NUW
Devala x1 HP 20, Prot 1, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 22, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +4, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: S3H4, Wpn: Kick
196
[[page 197]]
Conj 9 Summon Rudra S5 55 - - NUW
Rudra x1 HP 32, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 30, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, Research -20, Forge Bonus -5, Ambidex 5, Storm Power 2, FR +15, SR +15, Fear +5, SpSi,
Storm Immunity, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 60, Mag: F3A3D3H1, Wpn: Apotropaic Sword, Kick,
Plague Bow, Lightning
Conj 2 Host of Ganas D1 9 - - NUW
Gana x20+ HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Spectral Club
Conj 5 Summon Vetalas D2 10 - -
Possessed Corpse x15 HP 22, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Inanim, Und,
PAmph, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Wpn: Mace
Conj 4 Contact Yaksha N2E1 25 - - NUW
Yaksha x1 HP 28, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Awe +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: E3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Conj 4 Contact Yakshini N2W1 25 - - NUW
Yakshini x1 HP 23, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
Amph, Awe +2, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Fist, Kick
Conj 5 Summon Kimpurushas N2S1 15 - - NUW
Kimpurusha x6 HP 25, Prot 15, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Magic, Awe +2, DV 50, Wpn: Falchion, Kick, Bite
Blood 1 Summon Rakshasas B1 8 - - NUW
Rakshasa x3 HP 28, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Blood 2 Feast of Flesh B1N1 50 - - NUW
Praghasa x18 HP 35, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 22, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Mace
Blood 3 Summon Asrapas B2 8 - - NUW
Asrapa x3 HP 19, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, Berserker +3, Mag: B1H1, Wpn: Athame, Kick
Blood 4 Summon Rakshasa B2 21 - - NUW
Warriors
Rakshasa Warrior x5 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR -5, Wpn: Iron Cudgel
Blood 5 Summon Sandhyabalas B2D1 25 - - NUW
Sandhyabala x3 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Chaos Power 1, Dark Power 1, FR -10, Wpn: Moon Blade
Blood 7 Summon Samanishada B3D1 35 - - NUW
Samanishada x1 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 60, Ambidex 2, Chaos Power 1, Dark Power 2, FR -10, Assassin, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 50, Wpn: Moon Blade, Duskdagger
Blood 6 Summon Dakini B4A1 81 - - NUW
Dakini x1 HP 23, Prot 12, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Chaos Power 1, Fear +5, SpSi, Damage Reversal 1 v MR, Ldr 50, UndLdr 90, MagLdr 70,
Mag: A3D1B3H2, Wpn: Athame, Kick
Blood 8 Summon Mandeha B5D2 133 - - NUW
Mandeha x1 HP 65, Prot 15, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 24, Att 15, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 15, MM 26, FS, Fly,
Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 2, Dark Power 3, FR -10, Fear +5, Sleep Aura 15, SpSi, Ldr
50, UndLdr 290, MagLdr 50, Mag: A2D3B3H3, Wpn: Flesh Eater
197
[[page 198]]
Blood 8 Summon Danavas B5 70 - - NUW
Danava x3 HP 92, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 24, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 20, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Ambidex 8, Chaos Power 2, FR -5, Fear +5, SpSi, Mag: H2?2, Wpn: Unholy
Sword, Unholy Spear, Unholy Axe
Blood 8 Summon Daitya B5 45 - - NUW
Daitya x3 HP 82, Prot 13, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 20, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 2, FR -5, SpSi, Mag: H2?3, Wpn: Unholy Sword, Plague Bow
National Rituals: T'ien Ch'i (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Celestial Hounds A1S1 2 - - NUW
Celestial Hound x2 HP 25, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 20, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SR +15, SpSi, Patrol 10, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 6 Call Celestial Soldiers A2S1 15 - - NUW
Celestial Soldier x6 HP 38, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 10, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Glaive
Conj 1 Celestial Servant E1S1 1 - - NUW
Celestial Servant x1 HP 48, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Magic,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Rake
Conj 3 Herd of Buffaloes N2 8 - - NUW
Buffalo x5+ HP 43, Prot 5, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 18, Trample,
Berserker +2, Wpn: Hoof, Gore
National Rituals: Jomon (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Aka-Oni F1D1 7 - - NUW
Aka-Oni x5+ HP 14, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: Great Club, Throw Flames
Conj 3 Summon Konoha Tengus A1E1 3 - - NUW
Konoha Tengu x5+ HP 12, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 5 Contact Dai Tengu A2E1 55 - - NUW
Dai Tengu x1 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag: A3E1N1H2, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Lightning
Tengu Warrior x10 HP 13, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 22, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Karasu Tengu x15 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 1 Summon Kappa W1N1 3 - - NUW
Kappa x5 HP 15, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 10, MM 16, Recup, Amph,
Wpn: Claw, Koppo
Conj 2 Summon Ao-Oni W1D1 7 - - NUW
Ao-Oni x5+ HP 14, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, CR +5, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: Great Club, Cold
Conj 5 Contact Nushi W2N1 25 - - NUW
Nushi x1 HP 10, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Awe +3,
Homesickness 20, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: W3D1N2, Wpn: Claw
198
[[page 199]]
Conj 5 Contact Kaijin W3 25 - - UW
Kaijin x1 HP 19, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, Amph, NNEat, FR +5, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3E1N2, Wpn: Enchanted Net,
Mighty Yari
Conj 5 Summon Ujigami E1S1 8 - - NUW
Ujigami x1 HP 22, Prot 17, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 150, MagLdr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn:
Katana
Conj 4 Summon Oni E1D1 8 - - NUW
Oni x5+ HP 24, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: No-Dachi, Javelin
Conj 6 Contact Tatsu E3 19 - - NUW
Tatsu x1 HP 42, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 34, MS, Fly,
FR +5, SR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Storm Immunity, Ldr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: ?2, Wpn: Venomous
Fangs, Claw, Tail Sweep, Drake Gas
Conj 7 Contact Yama-no-kami E4 28 - - NUW
Yama-no-kami x1 HP 29, Prot 16, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 11, MM 16, MS, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, NNEat, Regen 10%, SpSi, Retinue 1d6 Wolves, Dominion Summoner 0+ Wolves,
Ldr 50, MagLdr 80, Mag: A2E3N2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Conj 6 Summon Kenzoku S1E1 9 - - NUW
Kenzoku x1 HP 26, Prot 17, MR 15, Mor 16, Str 15, Att 15, Def 15, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Awe +2, SpSi, Ldr 100, MagLdr 100, Wpn: Enchanted Katana
Conj 1 Summon Ko-Oni D1 4 - - NUW
Ko-Oni x5+ HP 9, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 1, CS 7, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, SpSi, Pillage +1, Wpn: Club
Conj 5 Summon Kuro-Oni D2F1 9 - - NUW
Kuro-Oni x5+ HP 24, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 14, MM 16, MS, Demon,
NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, SpSi, Pillage +2, Wpn: No-Dachi, Throw Flames, Poison
Spit
Conj 6 Summon Oni General D2F1 20 - - NUW
Oni Shugo x1 HP 30, Prot 21, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 10, MS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Research -4, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, SpSi, Pillage +3, Retinue 1d6
Wolves, Ldr 45, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 10, Mag: D2?1, Wpn: No-Dachi, Throw Flames, Javelin
Conj 6 Summon Gozu Mezu D3 6 - - NUW
Ox-head x1 HP 46, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Demon,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Gore, Soul Catcher
Horse-face x1 HP 38, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 15, Def 13, Prec 15, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Demon,
NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Soul Catcher
Conj 4 Ghost General D3 10 - -
Shura x1 HP 20, Prot 17, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 16, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 19, Float, Eth,
Spi, Und, Amph, NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Ldr 100, UndLdr 150, Wpn: Bane
Blade
Conj 8 Summon Dai Oni D4F1 45 - - NUW
Dai Oni x1 HP 50, Prot 19, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 20, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, MS, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Research -12, Chaos Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Pillage +5, Retinue
1d6 Wolves, Ldr 80, UndLdr 350, MagLdr 40, Mag: F2E2D3H1?1, Wpn: Enchanted No-Dachi,
Throw Flames, Javelin
199
[[page 200]]
Conj 3 Summon Okami N1 4 - - NUW
Okami x10+ HP 23, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS,
Stealth 40, Magic Power 1, CR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Bite
Conj 4 Contact Jigami N1 10 - - NUW
Jigami x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 1, CS 12, MM 16, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Supply 50, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: N2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Conj 2 Summon Karasu Tengus N1A1 2 - - NUW
Karasu Tengu x3 HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Katana, Lightning Strike
Conj 3 Contact Bakeneko N2 8 - - NUW
Bakeneko x1 HP 4, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 4, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
80, Magic Power 1, MagLdr 10, Mag: ?1, Wpn: Claw, Bite
Conj 5 Contact Mujina N2 21 - - NUW
Mujina x1 HP 7, Prot 2, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 5, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS,
Stealth 80, Magic Power 1, SpSi, MagLdr 40, Mag: E1N1G2, Wpn: Bite
Conj 5 Contact Tanuki N2 26 - - NUW
Tanuki x1 HP 6, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 5, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS,
Stealth 80, Magic Power 1, Heretic 1, MagLdr 50, Mag: E1N1G2?1, Wpn: Bite
Conj 6 Contact Kitsune N2 30 - - NUW
Kitsune x1 HP 5, Prot 2, MR 18, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth
80, Magic Power 1, MagLdr 60, Mag: N1G3?1, Wpn: Bite
Conj 3 Ambush of Tigers N2 9 - - NUW
Tiger x15+ HP 22, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, DV 50,
Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 5 Contact Mori-no-kami N3 21 - - NUW
Mori-no-kami x1 HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Eth, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Magic -1, SpSi, Ldr 125, MagLdr 30, Mag: E1N3, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
National Rituals: Mictlan (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 4 Summon Jade Serpents W2 3 - -
Jade Serpent x2 HP 62, Prot 12, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, SS, Sacr,
Amph, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Conj 7 Summon Tlaloque W4 60 - - NUW
Tlaloque of the West (x1) HP 48, Prot 5, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 19, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 16, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Supply 100, SpSi, Ldr 50, UndLdr 180, MagLdr 70, Mag: W4D2B3H3, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Conj 1 Summon Jaguar Toads N1H1 2 - - NUW
Jaguar Toad x3 HP 21, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +15, Wpn: Head Butt, Poison Spit
Conj 6 Contact Couatl N1S1 40 - - NUW
Couatl x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, FS, SS, Fly,
Sacr, Magic, PR +15, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 140, Mag: S3N3H2, Wpn: Venomous
Fangs
Conj 3 Summon Jaguars N2H1 20 - - NUW
Jaguar x25 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite, Claw
200
[[page 201]]
Conj 5 Summon Monster Toad N2 1 - - NUW
Monster Toad x1 HP 63, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +25, Wpn: Head Butt
Blood 2 Bind Beast Bats B1 8 - - NUW
Beast Bat x3 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 4 Bind Jaguar Fiends B1F1 16 - - NUW
Ozelotl x3 HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
Blood 5 Contact Civateteo B2D2 36 - - NUW
Civateteo x1 HP 20, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 22, Eth, Sacr,
Und, NNEat, Stealth 40, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 200, MagLdr 10, Mag:
D1B1H2, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 6 Bind Tzitzimitl B2S2 10 - - NUW
Tzitzimitl x1 HP 43, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 20, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Scorpion Tail, Stellar Bolt
Blood 6 Contact Tlahuelpuchi B3 42 - - NUW
Tlahuelpuchi x1 HP 17, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 14, MM 28, Fly, NNEat,
Stealth 50, DV 100, Assassin, Patience +2, UndLdr 70, MagLdr 30, Mag: D1N1B2, Wpn: Life
Drain
Blood 7 Contact Onaqui B4 101 - - NUW
Onaqui x1 HP 31, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 2, Retinue 2 Beast Bats, Dominion Summoner 1+
Beast Bats, Ldr 100, UndLdr 190, MagLdr 60, Mag: D2N1B3H1?1, Wpn: Venomous Fangs,
Claw, Claw
Beast Bat x8 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 8 Rain of Jaguars B6F2 40 - - NUW
Ozelotl x14+ HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
National Rituals: Xibalba (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Chaac A4 75 - - NUW
Chaac of the West (x1) HP 32, Prot 3, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, Fly, Sacr,
NNEat, Supply 50, SR +15, Storm Immunity, Ldr 50, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 60, Mag:
A4W2D2H3, Wpn: Thunder Axe, Lightning
Conj 4 Summon Jade Serpents W2 3 - -
Jade Serpent x2 HP 62, Prot 12, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 14, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, SS, Sacr,
Amph, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Conj 3 Summon Sacred Scorpion E1D1 2 - - NUW
Sacred Scorpion x1 HP 48, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 7, Prec 3, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 10, WS, Sacr, PR
+15, DV 100, Wpn: Pincer, Pincer, Scorpion Tail
Conj 1 Summon Jaguar Toads N1H1 2 - - NUW
Jaguar Toad x3 HP 21, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +15, Wpn: Head Butt, Poison Spit
201
[[page 202]]
Conj 3 Summon Jaguars N2H1 20 - - NUW
Jaguar x25 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Conj 5 Summon Monster Toad N2 1 - - NUW
Monster Toad x1 HP 63, Prot 8, MR 7, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 7, Def 2, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Trample,
PR +25, Wpn: Head Butt
Conj 7 Summon Balam N4 60 - - NUW
Balam of the North (x1) HP 49, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Stealth 40, Ldr 100, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 90, Mag: A2N4B2H3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Blood 2 Bind Beast Bats B1 8 - - NUW
Beast Bat x3 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 4 Bind Jaguar Fiends B1F1 16 - - NUW
Ozelotl x3 HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
Blood 7 Contact Onaqui B4 101 - - NUW
Onaqui x1 HP 31, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 2, Retinue 2 Beast Bats, Dominion Summoner 1+
Beast Bats, Ldr 100, UndLdr 230, MagLdr 50, Mag: D2N1B3H1?1, Wpn: Venomous Fangs,
Claw, Claw
Beast Bat x8 HP 19, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 3, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
Blood 8 Rain of Jaguars B6F2 40 - - NUW
Ozelotl x14+ HP 33, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 28, FS, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, NNEat, Wpn: Bite, Claw, Claw
National Rituals: C'tis (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Contact Scorpion Man E1F1 12 - - NUW
Scorpion Man x1 HP 42, Prot 21, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 20, WS, Sacr,
Magic, Ambidex 2, FR +15, PR +15, Fear +5, SpSi, Wpn: Pincer, Stinger, Enchanted Sword,
Plague Bow, Gaze of Fear
Ench 0 Revive Grave Consort D1 10 - - NUW
Grave Consort x1 HP 35, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Sacr, Inanim,
Und, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, UndLdr 20, Mag: H1, Wpn: Claw
Ench 0 Revive Tomb Priest D2 16 - - NUW
Tomb Priest x1 HP 40, Prot 11, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Sacr, Inanim,
Und, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 190, Mag: H2, Wpn: Claw
Ench 0 Revive Tomb King D3 23 - - NUW
Tomb King x1 HP 50, Prot 11, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 20, Sacr, Inanim,
Und, NNEat, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Ldr 100, UndLdr 260, Mag: H3, Wpn: Snake Staff
Conj 7 Contact Couatl N1S1 40 - - NUW
Couatl x1 HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, FS, SS, Fly,
Sacr, Magic, PR +15, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 140, Mag: S3N3H2, Wpn: Venomous
Fangs
Conj 4 Sacred Crocodile N2W2 1 - - NUW
Sacred Crocodile x1 HP 73, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 21, Att 11, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 10, SS, Sacr, Wpn:
Bite
202
[[page 203]]
National Rituals: Midgård (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the West (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 1, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: A4E3D2, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 4 Awaken Draugar D2 12 - - NUW
Draug x4 HP 30, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
National Rituals: Bogarus (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Summon Firebird F1S1 2 - - NUW
Firebird x1 HP 8, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 7, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 28, FS, MS, Fly,
Magic, FR +15, Wpn: Talons, Fire Flare
Conj 5 Summon Zmey F2 5 - - NUW
Zmey x1 HP 45, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 28, MS, Fly, FR
+15, Wpn: Bite, Bite, Bite, Drake Fire
Conj 2 Summon Simargl A1 1 - - NUW
Simargl x1 HP 13, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 28, Fly, Patrol
10, Wpn: Bite
Conj 7 Contact Cloud Vila A4 40 - - NUW
Cloud Vila x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 28, MS, Fly,
Sacr, Stealth 50, Healing 1, SR +15, CR +5, Seduction , Storm Immunity, MagLdr 70, Mag:
A3S1N2, Wpn: Fist, Lightning Strike
Conj 4 Summon Rusalka W1D1 16 - - NUW
Rusalka x1 HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 12, MM 16, Und, Amph,
Stealth 60, CR +15, PR +25, Seduction , Gift of Water Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 10, UndLdr
60, MagLdr 10, Mag: W1D1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 4 Send Vodyanoy W2 20 4 -
Vodyanoy x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 10, Aqua, Stealth
40, Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3N1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Contact Beregina W3E1 35 - -
Beregina x1 HP 8, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Magic, Amph,
Awe +3, SpSi, Gift of Water Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3E1N2, Wpn:
Fist
Conj 5 Send Bukavac W4 5 4 - Anon
Bukavac x1 HP 162, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 22, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 10, Magic,
Trample, Aqua, Fear +5, Wpn: Gore, Tentacle, Tentacle
Conj 3 Contact Sirin S2 8 - - NUW
Sirin x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Stealth 50, Dream Seduction , Ldr 50, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Conj 4 Contact Alkonost S2 15 - - NUW
Alkonost x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr, SR
+15, Awe +5, Inspirational +2, Ldr 50, Mag: H3, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Conj 5 Contact Gamayun S3 25 - - NUW
Gamayun x1 HP 12, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 28, Fly, Sacr,
Research +6, Awe +3, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: A2S2H2, Wpn: Claw, Claw
203
[[page 204]]
Conj 4 Summon Likho D1 10 - - NUW
Likho x1 HP 14, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 8, Str 12, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Stealth 60,
Wpn: Claw, Curse
Conj 7 Contact Mountain Vila N4 40 - - NUW
Mountain Vila x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 16, FS, MS,
Sacr, Stealth 50, Healing 2, SR +15, CR +5, Seduction , Rider 3, MagLdr 70, Mag: A2S1N3, Wpn:
Fist, Vine Bow, Mount: Sacred Stag
Conj 8 Contact Leshiy N6 60 - - NUW
Leshiy x1 HP 24, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, FS, Magic,
Magic -1, CR +5, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: A2W1E2N3, Wpn: Gore, Fist
National Rituals: Utgård (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the East (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 2, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 90, Mag: A4E3N2, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 3 Summon Glosos D2 13 - - NUW
Gloso x9 HP 28, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Trample, Stealth 50, FR +25, DV 100, Heat 3, Wpn: Poisonous Gore
Conj 4 Awaken Jotun Draugar D2 15 - - NUW
Jotun Draug x3 HP 70, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 23, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 7, MM 20, Und, Amph,
NNEat, CR +25, PR +25, Fear +5, SpSi, Chill 3, Wpn: Broad Sword
Conj 4 Brood of Garm N2 10 - - NUW
Jotun Wolf x5 HP 30, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 23, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr, CR
+15, Fear +5, Berserker +3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
National Rituals: Vaettiheim (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 Summon Dwarf of the Four A4E3 62 - - NUW
Directions
Dwarf of the East (x1) HP 12, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master
Smith 2, SR +15, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 90, Mag: A4E3N2, Wpn: Hammer
Conj 3 Summon Glosos D2 13 - - NUW
Gloso x9 HP 28, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 18, MM 22, FS, Sacr,
Trample, Stealth 50, FR +25, DV 100, Heat 3, Wpn: Poisonous Gore
Conj 4 Brood of Garm N2 10 - - NUW
Jotun Wolf x5 HP 30, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 17, Str 23, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 28, MM 22, FS, Sacr, CR
+15, Fear +5, Berserker +3, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Blood 6 Winter's Call B3W2 86 - - NUW
Niefel Jarl x1 HP 75, Prot 14, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 26, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Cold
pow 1, SR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 3, Chill 15, Ldr 150, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3D2H2?1,
Wpn: Ice Blade
204
[[page 205]]
National Rituals: Feminie (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Call the Birds of Splendor F2N1 7 - - NUW
Yllerion (x1) HP 60, Prot 12, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 18, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 14, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 34, Fly, FR +25,
SR +15, Awe +5, Siege Strength +10, Patrol 25, Fire Shield 8 AP dmg, Retinue 3d6 Random
Birds, Ldr 100, Wpn: Burning Beak, Burning Claw, Burning Claw
Thau 6 Deceive the Decree of the G3S1 45 - - NUW
Lost
King of the Lost Tribe x1 HP 55, Prot 18, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 22, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 20, WS,
NNEat, Research -4, FR +5, Heretic 2, Ldr 150, MagLdr 20, Mag: ?2, Wpn: Dawn Blade, Gore
Giant of the Lost Tribe x15 HP 50, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 18, WS,
NNEat, FR +5, Wpn: Dawn Blade, Gore
Blood 9 Release Lord of Civilization B8 177 - - NUW
Grigori (x1) HP 66, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Demon, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 60, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Fear +10, SpSi, Damage Reversal 3
vs MR, Invulnerability 30, Fortune Teller 20, Ldr 150, UndLdr 40, MagLdr 260, Mag:
A4S4B4H3, Wpn: Fist
National Rituals: Piconye (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Call Cyclops Tribe E2 9 - - NUW
Cyclops x5+ HP 42, Prot 9, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, Wpn: Great
Club
Conj 4 Call Malakh S2 9 - - NUW
Malakh x1 HP 13, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Stealth 60, FR +5, SR +5, Awe +4, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Call Hashmal S3F1 21 - - NUW
Hashmal x1 HP 27, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Magic, NNEat, FR +25, SR +5, Awe +5, SpSi, Invulnerability 20, Inquisitor, Fire Shield 10
AP dmg, Ldr 150, MagLdr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 7 Call Arel S4N1 39 - - NUW
Arel x1 HP 33, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 8, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 34, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Healing 3, FR +5, SR +5, PR +15, Awe +6, SpSi, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 100,
MagLdr 80, Mag: N3H3, Wpn: Fist
Conj 8 Call Ophan S5F2 49 - - NUW
Ophan x1 HP 55, Prot 21, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 20, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 1, CS 27, MM 40, Fly, Eth,
Sacr, Inanim, Magic, Trample, NNEat, FR +15, SR +15, PR +25, Awe +6, SpSi, Patrol 50, Fire
Shield 11 AP dmg, Mag: H3, Wpn: Flame Strike
Conj 9 Call Merkavah S7F3 222 - - NUW
Chayot x1 HP 55, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 18, Att 15, Def 14, Prec 15, Enc 1, CS 16, MM 40, Fly, Sacr,
Magic, NNEat, Astral Magic +6, Magic -6, FR +15, SR +15, PR +15, Awe +7, SpSi, Sight
Vengeance 5 vs MR, Invulnerability 30, Fire Shield 13 AP dmg, Retinue 4 Ophans, Ldr 200,
MagLdr 180, Mag: F4A4E4S4H10, Wpn: Fist
205
[[page 206]]
National Rituals: Pyrène (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 0 Summon Incubus B3G1 66 - - NUW
Incubus x1 HP 35, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Stealth 40, FR +15, SpSi, Dream Seduction , Scale Walls, Unseen, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50,
MagLdr 20, Mag: G2, Wpn: Life Drain
Blood 0 Summon Succubus B3G1 66 - - NUW
Succubus x1 HP 30, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 30, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 1, CS 13, MM 28, Fly, Demon,
NNEat, Stealth 40, FR +15, SpSi, Dream Seduction , Scale Walls, Unseen, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50,
MagLdr 20, Mag: G2, Wpn: Life Drain
National Rituals: Erytheia (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Contact Hesperide F3S1 35 - - NUW
Hesperide x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Recup,
Supply 30, Disease Healing 3, Awe +6, Inspirational +1, Ldr 80, MagLdr 110, Mag: F3S3N2H2,
Wpn: Fist
Conj 6 Call Ladon F3N2 15 - - NUW
Drakon Hesperios (x1) HP 144, Prot 20, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 24, Att 15, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 10, MM 16, SS, Regen
20%, PR +15, Fear +10, Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Venomous Fangs, Venomous Fangs
Cnst 6 Forge Brass Bull F3E3 25 - - NUW
Khalkotauros x1 HP 81, Prot 25, MR 14, Mor 50, Str 25, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 0, CS 20, MM 22, Inanim,
Magic, Mind, Trample, PAmph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +25, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi,
Heat 3, Wpn: Brass Hoof, Brass Horns, Fiery Breath
Conj 5 Summon Hound of Twilight E2D1 3 - - NUW
Hound of Twilight x1 HP 55, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 21, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, PR +15, Fear
+5, DV 100, SpSi, Patrol 20, Wpn: Ghost Rending Bite, Ghost Rending Bite, Serpent Tail
Cnst 6 Craft Keledone E2S2 5 - -
Keledone x1 HP 19, Prot 25, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 0, Prec 12, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Inanim, Magic,
Amph, NNEat, BlR, SlR, PiR, FR +15, SR +15, CR +15, PR +25, SpSi, Spell Singer, Wpn:
Conj 6 Summon Daktyl E3A1 30 - -
Daktyl x1 HP 9, Prot 7, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 12, Sacr, Magic,
Amph, Master Smith 1, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag: A1W1E2?1, Wpn: Enchanted
Hammer
Conj 5 Summon Hekateride N3W1 30 - -
Hekateride x1 HP 15, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr,
Recup, Magic, Amph, Supply 30, Awe +6, Inspirational +2, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 110,
Mag: W2N3H2?1, Wpn: Fist
National Rituals: Atlantis (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Summon Monster Fish W3 6 - - UW
Monster Fish x1 HP 128, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 25, Att 12, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 10, Aqua, Fear
+5, Wpn: Swallow
206
[[page 207]]
National Rituals: R'lyeh (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Contact Void Spectre S3 25 - -
Void Spectre x1 HP 16, Prot 0, MR 20, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 14, Enc 0, CS 8, MM 22, Float, Eth,
Spi, Und, Magic, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 70, CR +15, PR +25, Fear +5, DV 100, SpSi, Void Sanity
20, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 180, Mag: S4, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast
207
[[page 208]]
Global Enchantments
The following spells are global enchantments, and thus are classified as rituals. The gem requirements listed are minimums,
players can choose to use more gems when casting making the enchantment harder to dispel. Most global enchantments
last until its caster dies or it is dispelled. Spells with the NUW special cannot be cast underwater.
Fire Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 8 The Kindly Ones F6N4 40 - -
The caster unleashes the Erinyes upon the world.  The Erinyes are three horrible spirits of vengeance that punish those who
slay innocent women. In elder times, they upheld the ban against Blood magic, but they have since returned to the darkness
whence they came.  They are sometimes called the Eumenides, the Kindly Ones, but their true names are Avenger of
Murder, Grudging Anger and The Unrelenting One.  Sinners will hear the horrible baying of the sisters and madness will
strike them unless they are found and most gruesomely slain by the sisters.  The first sister kills those who have killed, the
second one hunts those who use blood magic and the third one hunts the enemies of he who summoned her and her sisters. 
The Kindly Ones remain in the world until the enchantment is dispelled or the three of them are slain.
Ench 6 Eternal Pyre F6 80 - - NUW
A huge blazing pyre lights up the landscape. It never burns out and the embers of the pyre will absorb the heat and can be
harvested as magical gems imbued with the fiery power of the pyre. The Eternal Pyre causes the temperature to rise to
unbearable levels in the province where it is cast. Once the eternal pyre has started burning, it will be impossible to
extinguish without the use of magic. Even putting it underwater would only reduce its heat a little.
Generates 20 Fire gems each month. Increases temperature and dispels all darkness in the province where it is cast.
Thau 7 Purgatory F6 60 - 18 AP, NUW
Holy fire will strike undead enemy creatures in the God's Dominion. The more powerful the Dominion, the more undead will
be killed.
All hostile undead beings have Dominion * 10% chance of being hit by 18 AP fire Dmg
Thau 8 Ordeal by Fire F6S6 70 - -
This enchantment sets the magical ether ablaze by utilizing a huge amount of magic fire gems. As long as the ether is ablaze
it will be difficult to manipulate any kind of magic without also taking fire damage from the heat. It is still possible to perform
rituals and forge magic items, but if not properly protected the chance of burning to death is high. Performing simple spells
in combat is possible without risk as long as they don't require any magic gems. Blood magic is unaffected by this ritual.
Performing rituals, forging and empowerment results in two d(gems spent / 2) AN fire attacks. Damage underwater is
halved. Using magic gems in combat results in catching fire.
Evo 8 Second Sun F8 80 - -
The caster creates a huge ball of fire in the sky. This Second Sun will always shine, day and night, resulting in severe effects
across the entire world. Provinces will become hotter and drier every turn until the Second Sun is destroyed.
Each turn increases heat scales throughout the world. Cave provinces will only get up to 1 step hotter.
Air Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Evo 6 Perpetual Storm A5 70 - -
An enormous storm will rage constantly over the entire world. This will reduce the income of all land provinces. Supplies are
scarce, as transportation is difficult and sailing and flying is impossible. All mountain passes are unusable during the
perpetual storm and shooting in battle is very difficult. Evocations cast upon distant provinces might fail as the magical gale
pushes the projectiles out of their trajectory.
All battles are affected by storm. Income -20%. Map movement costs are increased by 2. Far-attack spells such as Fires from
Afar have a 25% chance of missing their targets. Seeking Arrow has a 75% chance of missing its target. Underwater and cave
provinces are not affected.
208
[[page 209]]
Thau 7 Dark Skies A5 50 - - NUW
Black clouds billow forth and cover the lands of your Dominion. All enemies under your Dominion will perceive the heavens
as dark and oppressing. The stronger the Dominion is, the more fearful the skies. The dark skies severely lower the morale
of those affected. The darkness also gives slightly lowered attack and defense skills to units without darkvision.
Enemy morale lowered by 1 for each point of dominion. Slight darkness in battles. Cave and deep sea provinces are not
affected.
Thau 8 Gale Gate A5 60 - - NUW
The caster opens a rift in space creating a gate into a realm of storms. Huge amounts of aerial magic are effectively
channeled through this gate, producing twenty Air gems each turn. Also air elementals summoned anywhere in the world
will be extra powerful while the gale gate is open. Not all of the powers of the Gale Gate can be harnessed though.
Hurricanes and storms will be randomly unleashed and hit a province somewhere in the world. The caster will be able to
direct hurricanes and have them strike provinces that are controlled by the enemies. A high skill in air magic makes it more
likely to successfully steer the hurricanes away.
Generates 20 Air gems each month. Air Elemental size +1 Creates a random amount of hurricanes. Caster has air magic
skill*10% chance of directing each hurricane to a safe province.
Thau 9 Winds of Arcane Drought A7S6 90 - - NUW
The caster creates an enormous whirlwind that originates in the province where the ritual is performed.  With the help of
astral magic the whirlwind will be sucked dry of any magical energies and then when it sweeps out over the world it will
absorb elemental magic to replenish itself.  The absorbed magic is then distilled into pure air gems at the origin.  All
elemental gem producing sites within range will have their output severely reduced as their magic is absorbed by the wind
instead.  Air being light is most affected, leaving nothing left and earth being heavy is least affected.  Sites and rituals that
extend the range of air rituals from a province will help the winds reach further.
All sites within a range of 6 provinces have their elemental gem output reduced (air -100%, water/fire -50%, earth -25%).
The stolen gems will be gained as air gems (1/2 conversion ratio, except for air). Affects non yet found magic sites as well.
Underwater and cave provinces are not affected. Worldwide +1 drain, in range +3 drain, origin +5 drain scale.
Water Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 7 Thetis' Blessing W5 50 - -
Allows all troops in the world to enter the sea and breathe under water. Fighting below the surface will still be a little
awkward for those not used to it, but at least it will be doable.
Poor Amphibian penalty: CS -half, Att -1, Def -2, Enc +1
Ench 7 Ghost Ship Armada W5D3 60 - -
This spell will awaken the dead Admiral Torgrin and make him fight for your cause. The Admiral will attack random coastal
provinces controlled by your enemies and plunder it. The gold will be returned to the caster of the enchantment and the
dead will be used to build up the armada. Once enough people have been killed the Admiral will create a new ghost armada.
If the main armada with Admiral Torgrin is defeated no new armadas will be created. Once all armadas are defeated the
enchantment will dissipate.
Ench 8 Wrath of the Sea W5 70 - -
The sea will rise and flood all coastal provinces within just a few months. Provinces that are struck by the flood will have
their income and population growth reduced. Once the enchantment is gone the flooded provinces will slowly start to
return to normal.
Coastal provinces and provinces with lakes will get income -30% and population growth -0.4%.
Evo 8 Maelstrom W6 80 - - UW
A huge magical maelstrom is created in a sea. The maelstrom constantly sucks in huge amounts of water and filters out its
magical essence. This results in a huge amount of magic gems for the caster.
Grants 15 Water, 5 astral, 3 air and 1 of each other gem type each month.
209
[[page 210]]
Alt 7 Sea of Ice W6 80 - -
All lakes, seas and rivers in the world are frozen by this powerful enchantment. This makes travel between land and sea
impossible, except by magical means such as teleportation. The frozen seas also stop Vanheim and other seafaring nations
from sailing.
Conj 8 Guardians of the Deep W6 60 - - UW
Sea monsters will help the local militia defend underwater provinces for as long as this spell is in effect. The defending
monsters are dependent on the terrain and type of sea. The monsters require some small degree of leadership and guidance,
so a small local defence is required for the enchantment to have any effect, but sometimes a group of monsters can emerge
and attack enemy provinces under your dominion. The global enchantment will last until it is dispelled or the caster dies.
Thau 7 Vengeful Water W7 70 - -
The caster chains the seven pillars of water to his god's command. Wherever the pretender god has influence water will rise
up and strike down any heathens that plot against him.  Water in friendly dominion will animate and try to kill enemy
commanders whenever possible. The elemental is stronger in provinces with a rich water supply than in dry provinces. A
waste with no access to water will never get any attacks.
Chance of elemental attacking: 5% + dominion * 2%.
Earth Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Cnst 6 Forge of the Ancients E5 80 - -
The ancient forge of the Great One's servants is reconstructed. The magic of the forge will reduce the need for magic
essence when forging magic items. It also enables mages to create more powerful items.
All magic items forged have their gem cost reduced by 20%. All mages crafts items as if they had the ability Master smith +1.
Cnst 8 Mechanical Militia E5 80 - -
Mechanical Men will help the local militia defend their provinces as long as this spell is in effect. The constructs require
leadership and guidance, so a small local defence is required for the enchantment to have any effect. The global
enchantment will last until it is dispelled or the caster dies.
Province Defense 1+: +1 Mechanical Man. Province Defense 20+: +1 Iron Fly.
Ench 6 Riches from Beneath E5 70 - -
This enchantment transforms mining from something harsh and dangerous to a really uplifting experience. The miners can
carve out gold and iron with their knives and the stone is extra soft where the valuable ore veins are as if the mountain is
trying to guide them. The enchantment only works within friendly dominion and a higher dominion score will make it more
effective. The enchantment gives a major boost to resource production and a minor boost to gold production, both
increases depend on the resource value of the province. Also all magic sites that are income yielding mines will have their
income up to doubled.
Resources: +20% * dominion (max +100%). Province Income: +4% * resource value * dominion (max 5). Income from mines:
+20% * dominion (max +100%).
Ench 7 Earth Blood Deep Well E6 80 - - NUW
A well, deeper than any other, is created. This well does not bring water, but rather blood from the Earth itself. This Earth
Blood is then made into magical Earth gems that can be used for magic rituals. The well will work more effectively if it is
created in a cave that is already deep down and thus closer to the earth blood.
Generates 17 Earth gems each month (+5 if in a cave).
Thau 9 Elemental Dampening E7S3 60 - -
This ritual dampens any attempt at manipulating the elemental powers. All combat spells of primarily the elemental paths
will be much slower to cast. Any elemental beings summoned will be slightly weaker than usual. This dampening will also
make it more difficult to perform elemental rituals and forging magic items that are mainly elemental in nature, additional
gems are required when performing these activities.
Elemental combat spells +100% casting time, Elemental size -1, Elemental rituals & magic items +20% gem cost.
210
[[page 211]]
Astral Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Evo 6 The Wrath of God S5A3 70 - 9 AN
With this enchantment, lighting will strike the enemies of the God, no matter where they are. However, the lightning bolts
strike most powerfully in provinces where the God has a strong Dominion. In provinces with a high turmoil scale more
thunderbolts strike. Enemies under water or inside caves are not affected.
Hit chance per month: 2% + 2% * dominion + turmoil (minimum 1% chance). Damage: 9 AN
Ench 5 The Eyes of God S5 50 - -
This enchantment enables the mage to see all provinces in the world. Dominions can be seen in great detail and so can
discovered magic sites, but income cannot be determined exactly. Inside the God's own Dominion income as well as any
troop movements and battles can be seen in great detail. This includes the detection of any glamoured or invisible troops
that are not stealthing. Patrolling units inside friendly dominion will find it much easier to detect enemy scouts and to quell
unrest. The historic records for all nations can be accessed and everyone on the Hall of Fame can be inspected.
Ench 7 Stellar Focus S5 60 - - NUW
This spell focuses the light of the night sky into a crystal sphere, depriving the entire world of some of its splendor. The
entire world is drained of arcana while magic flows freely in the province where the ritual was cast. The light of the sphere
can be distilled into pearls of arcane power.
Grants 10 Astral pearls each month. Increases Drain by +1 world wide. Increases Magic by +3 in the province where the
ritual was cast.
Alt 9 Arcane Decree S6 60 - -
This decree forbids anyone but the rightful Pretender God from manipulating the global enchantments. Any hostile mage
trying to cast or dispel a global enchantment must first overcome the arcane decree, which will weaken the manipulation
attempt even if it should manage to get through. This also applies to any dispel attempt against the arcane decree.
New hostile global enchantments and dispels have their might reduced by half of the arcane decree's might.
Evo 9 Strands of Arcane Power S7 70 - -
This mighty enchantment enables the caster to project his mind to many distant places at once, via strands of arcane power.
While projected, the caster will only be able to sense and affect magic, but this still makes it possible to search for magic
sites and enemy mages. The caster will be able to project himself into all provinces that have a friendly Dominion.
Mind Burn: 10 AN dmg (MR negates), penetration bonuses makes the MR test harder.
Ench 9 Arcane Nexus S8 150 - -
This mighty enchantment absorbs magical energies worldwide to replenish the caster's magical resources. Half of all magic
gems used to cast spells and to create magic items will be absorbed into the Arcane Nexus and converted into astral pearls
at a two to one ratio. The purity of Astral and Blood magic makes it impossible for the Nexus to absorb any magic when
these types of spells are cast, but all other types of magic will have some of their power absorbed by the Nexus. Even when
no spells are cast or no items are forged, the Nexus will absorb some ambient magic energy from the world.
Gathers Astral pearls equal to a quarter of all magic gems used for rituals, forging and empowerment. Power from astral
pearls and blood slaves are not gathered.
Death Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 6 Foul Air D5A1 75 - - NUW
The air will become polluted by a deadly disease when this enchantment is cast. Anyone who is wounded will instantly
become diseased due to the foul air. This enchantment affects all land provinces in the entire world and will last until
dispelled or the caster dies. Unrest will increase worldwide while the enchantment is active.
Worldwide Unrest +d4.
211
[[page 212]]
Conj 8 Well of Misery D6 80 - -
This mighty ritual is a blessing to units across the world. Diseases, old age, suffering and pains are all drained of some of their
essence. All malign energies are siphoned from the world and concentrated in the Well of Misery, effectively giving the
caster a huge income of magical gems of Death. Each month a large amount of death gems are generated and the growth
scale is increased in all provinces of the world.
Generates 21 Death gems each month. Increases growth worldwide by +2 Growth scale is increased by +5 in the province
where the spell was cast. The spell is broken if the province where it was cast is lost.
Thau 9 Remnants in the Depths D6W4 90 - - UW
Massive amounts of death and disease have always been safely locked away at the bottom of the oceans. Maybe the world
once had too much disease and the old pantokrator stashed away most of it there as a gesture of generosity. No one knows
for sure, but many wise old people seem to remember tales of a god saving the world from a horrible plague. With this
enchantment the lock will be opened, just a little, to let the death and disease out into the oceans. All seas will start to get
increased death scales until they reach the maximum, at which point everyone will start to get diseased and population will
die completely in just a few years time.
Increases death in seas by +1/month. Increases death in coastal provinces by +1/month, but max +2. Sea provinces with +5
death spreads disease to units and kill 4% population/month.
Thau 7 Burden of Time D7 70 - -
This evil enchantment will make everyone in the world age at a highly accelerated rate. Unrest will increase in the entire
world and soldiers will soon become crippled and useless. While this enchantment is active, the world will become more and
more desolate until everyone dies.
Worldwide Population loss about -2%, worldwide Unrest +d4, death scale +2, aging for all units greatly increased.
Alt 9 Utterdark D9 100 - -
The world is covered by a blanket of utter darkness. All living beings must use torches to see even a few feet in front of
themselves. During the perpetual night, forces of darkness and roaming shades will attack enemy provinces.
Worldwide Income and Resources -90%. Caves and deep seas are exempt from the income reduction. All battles are fought
under Darkness -6. Demons, blind beings and beings with spirit sight or perfect darkvision are unaffected by this spell.
Nature Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 5 Mother Oak N5 50 - - NUW
The oldest and mightiest of all oaks in the realm is enchanted to become the greatest oak there ever was. The Mother Oak
produces magical acorns that can be harvested and made into Nature gems.
Grants 10 Nature gems each month. The Oak increases Growth by +2 in the province where it is cast.
Ench 8 Haunted Forest N5D1 60 - - NUW
Vines will merge with anyone killed in the God's Dominion, creating an undead Manikin. The Manikin will fight any enemies
of the God for a short while before it is totally dissolved by the vines. Undead or inanimate beings are not affected by the
spell.
Ench 7 Gift of Health N6 50 - -
This gift grants excellent health to all loyal subjects inside the God's Dominion. The gifted ones receive extra hit points, grow
old more slowly and may even heal permanent afflictions. Just like most healing effects, lifeless, undead and spiritform
beings are not affected.
HP +10% per dominion. Chance of healing afflictions: about 10% * dominion. Aging reduced by half.
Conj 9 Enchanted Forests N7 90 - - NUW
All forests will start to whisper the hymns to the pretender that controls this enchantment. This will spread dominion to the
places where false pretenders were worshiped. When a forest has the right dominion it will start to attack instead of
whispering hymns. Enemies in that province or neighboring provinces will be attacked by creatures of the awakening forest.
212
[[page 213]]
All forests (including cave forests) under neutral or enemy dominion spread dominion as if they were temples of the caster's
pretender. Forests with friendly dominion will spontaneously spawn attacks in the province or enemy controlled
neighboring provinces. A strong dominion and high Growth scale helps the effectiveness of the attacks. Wastelands are
never attacked.
Ench 9 Gift of Nature's Bounty N7 70 - -
All life in the God's Dominion is blessed. Grain grows more quickly, the mustard tastes better, the ducks are fatter and all
living creatures mate and give birth to young. The income of lands under the God's Dominion is greatly increased.
Income: +15% per dominion, growth scale +1 per dominion.
Glamour Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 7 Wild Hunt G5N3 50 - -
The caster unleashes the Wild Hunt upon the world. The Hunt is led by Herne the Lord of the Hunt, an ancient deity of the
wild roaming the woodlands in search of those who have offended the wild and its inhabitants. When the Hunt has been
called, powerful priests of enemy faiths will be hunted down for as long as the Lord is not slain. Apart from the main hunt led
by Herne the Lord of the Hunt, there are also up to four lesser hunts that helps him hunt down less important enemy sacred
commanders. Sneaking commanders might fool the lesser hunts, but Herne is extremely skilled and will find anyone
eventually.
Herne targets powerful enemy priests in forest provinces (including cave forests). Up to 4 lesser hunts will target any enemy
sacred commanders located in forest provinces. Sneaking reduces chance of being targeted by the lesser hunts.
Thau 7 Gates of Horn and Ivory G5 60 - - NUW
The caster erects two gates into the Dreamwild. Through the first comes fulfillment and true dreams that tell of the future,
from the other comes dreams of deception or despair. Rituals cast at the Gates of Horn and Ivory will have their reach
extended greatly. Also a huge amount of Glamour gems can be harvested from the gates each month.
Generates 15 Glamour gems each month. Increases range for glamour rituals cast in the province by +3.
Thau 8 Lure of the Deep G5W2 70 - - UW
Sirens will start to emerge from the deeps when this powerful enchantment is cast. The Sirens will sing to enemy troops and
lure them down to certain death in the deeps. The lure is most persuasive in coastal and sea provinces with strong friendly
Dominion. Inland provinces are not affected at all. Nations that can recruit Sirens will find that this is cheaper while this
enchantment is in effect. This global enchantment can only be cast in an underwater laboratory.
Lure chance: 20% + dominion * 20%. Enemy dominion prevents the Lure. Easy MR check to avoid drowning.
Evo 9 Celestial Rainbow G7W5 80 - - NUW
This ritual creates a rainbow large enough to be seen from everywhere in the world. The mage can direct where he wants
the rainbow to appear and by doing this huge amounts of gold can easily be collected at the base of the rainbow. While the
rainbow is in place luck will increase in all the caster's provinces. Once the luck is positive in a province the luck of the
rainbow will protect it from hostile spells. The more luck in a province, the greater chance of hostile spells failing.
Gold: about 500 each month. Luck scale +2. Dome Protection: 10% per luck scale level.
Ench 8 Fata Morgana G7 90 - -
Under the fata morgana life seems much easier and everyone is happy. Phantasmal Warriors will assist the local defence in
defending the province against invaders.  If the entire province should not be hidden from the enemy, enemy scouts will still
be tricked by the illusions and likely give incorrect reports about armies present. All provinces in friendly dominion will be
affected by the fata morgana.
Province Defense 1+: +2 Warrior Illusions, +1 Archer Illusion. Province Defense 20+: +1 Knight Illusion. Unrest -10 per
turn. False scout reports.
Alt 8 Eternal Twilight G8 90 - -
The entire world is stuck in between the day and the night, an eternal twilight. Vision is hampered and it is difficult to
discern details. That which is small seems large and that which is close seems far away. Appearances are deceiving and it is
difficult to separate dreams from reality. The caster's dominion will protect friendly provinces from any adverse effects, but
213
[[page 214]]
outside people will struggle in their daily labor. Hostile units must be constantly suspicious of what they see, or they will
wander off a cliff or maybe into the sea. This enchantment requires the presence of a single sun in order to function
properly.
All provinces get +1 magic scale and all battles have the Twilight effect. Lands that are hostile or outside dominion get -10%
income and -20% resources. Hostile units risk getting tricked and die (morale + MR check), this risk is lower in densely
populated provinces.
Thau 9 Dreams of the Awakening G8 90 - -
God
Everywhere where it is not yet worshiped, people will start dreaming of the rightful Pretender God. Maybe just a glimpse of
its wonderful promises, maybe an excruciating nightmare showing what can befall its enemies.
All provinces without friendly dominion have an 85% chance of gaining one dominion spread.
Blood Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 9 Astral Corruption B6S6 166 - - NUW
This horrible ritual is the cause of Blood magic being banned in ancient times. With an awesome sacrifice, the fabric of astral
space becomes tainted with blood. All spell casting uses the tainted Arcana and attracts the attention of Horrors. Every time
a non-Blood magic ritual is cast, a magic item is forged or a mage is empowering himself, there is a chance that a Horror will
follow the arcane flow and attack the mage. The more gems spent the greater the chance of attracting a horror.
Blood 7 Blood Moon B7S5 90 - - NUW
By making an enormous blood sacrifice when both the stars and the moon are right, it is possible to imbue the moon with
the power of the blood. The moon will turn red as blood and as long as it is visible in the night sky, performing blood magic
during the night will be much easier. The moon turning red is a powerful sign of misfortune and that will be felt in the entire
world. All blood mages will start to perform their rituals under the moon at night and have their power increased for rituals
and blood hunting. The moon will not have any effect in caves, underwater or if there is no night, e.g. in the presence of two
suns.
Blood magic level +1 for rituals and blood searching. Misfortune +2 worldwide.
Blood 8 Blood Vortex B7 166 - - NUW
This horrifying ritual creates the blood vortex. A churning pool of polluted blood that roars horrible yet terribly alluring
songs. The song of the vortex is heard by all mortals in the world, whispering sweet melodies of death and carnage,
beckoning all people to come bask in its crimson presence. Its song is especially strongly felt by those whose blood is
suitable for blood rituals, summoning them to the site of the ritual. The mortals that enter its presence stare dumbfounded
on the waves and swirls in the vortex, or throw themselves heedlessly to drown in the bloody swirls. The master of the ritual
then collects suitable victims to use in other rituals. Eventually, when no life is left in the world around the vortex, it dries
out and dies. Provinces with strong influences of order will be less affected by the beckoning and those with strong turmoil
influences will be more drawn to the vortex.
Blood 9 The Looming Hell B8 150 - - NUW
Devils will appear in the dreams of some unfortunate enemies whenever they try to sleep. These Devils, through various
threats, will try to persuade their victims to sell their souls and join in the killing of their own commander. The strength of
the threats depends on the strength of the God's Dominion, but extreme courage is always required to defy the Devils. The
Devils are totally powerless if they are unable to persuade any victims, which may well happen should the enemy
commander be more feared than they are.
Up to 5 random enemy units inside the dominion will be offered to sell their souls. Morale save vs 10 + dominion to refuse (4
easier to refuse if the commander has fear).
214
[[page 215]]
National Rituals: Mekone (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 7 Gigantomachia E4F4 60 - -
The war upon the gods is declared. Trembling and cowering in fear, false gods sense the rattling of spears forged for the
armies of the giants. The will of false pretenders withdraw from the might of the giants who gather in ever greater numbers.
Recruitment limit in friendly dominion +1, dominion gains a +3 conflict bonus, Mekone and Phlegran giants recruitment cost
-10
National Rituals: Yomi (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 6 End of Culture F5 60 - -
This is the End of Culture for the entire world as chaos will increase worldwide. Spawn rate of Oni, both from temples under
friendly dominion and from Oni generals will be greatly increased.
National Rituals: Xibalba (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 8 Theft of the Sun D6F3 70 - - NUW
Since the disappearance of the Sun, the Zotz have longed for the warmth and reputed splendor of the celestial entity. With
this spell the sorcerer lures the Sun from its heavenly abode to once more travel through Xibalba during the night. But the
intent is a malicious one, for once the Sun has entered the labyrinthine caverns of Xibalba it is led astray and trapped in the
Cavern of the Sun, giving its splendor to the Sun Guides and its fiery magic to the Ah K'in. With only the moon and the stars
lighting the sky, the world is plunged into darkness.
Grants 10 fire gems and 5 astral pearls each month. Worldwide darkness, income -30%, resources -30% (does not affect
caves and deep seas).
National Rituals: Niefelheim (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 6 Illwinter B5W3 120 - - NUW
The caster sacrifices the blood of innocent virgins in an attempt to revive the old Rimtursar, ancient giants of terrible might
and the ancestors of the Jotun. The giants are slow to awaken but their presence will cause blizzards, wolf attacks and
severe cold all over the world. The Illwinter is the most feared of all omens and unrest will increase worldwide.
Affects entire world. 50% chance of unrest +d4, Cold +1 for every 4 months, random attacks in cold provinces. Allows
recruitment of one Niefel Giant in every fort for Jotun nations.
National Rituals: Phlegra (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 7 Gigantomachia E4F4 60 - -
The war upon the gods is declared. Trembling and cowering in fear, false gods sense the rattling of spears forged for the
armies of the giants. The will of false pretenders withdraw from the might of the giants who gather in ever greater numbers.
Recruitment limit in friendly dominion +1, dominion gains a +3 conflict bonus, Mekone and Phlegran giants recruitment cost
-10
National Rituals: Jotunheim (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 6 Illwinter B5W3 120 - - NUW
The caster sacrifices the blood of innocent virgins in an attempt to revive the old Rimtursar, ancient giants of terrible might
and the ancestors of the Jotun. The giants are slow to awaken but their presence will cause blizzards, wolf attacks and
severe cold all over the world. The Illwinter is the most feared of all omens and unrest will increase worldwide.
Affects entire world. 50% chance of unrest +d4, Cold +1 for every 4 months, random attacks in cold provinces. Allows
recruitment of one Niefel Giant in every fort for Jotun nations.
215
[[page 216]]
National Rituals: Phlegra (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 7 Gigantomachia E4F4 60 - -
The war upon the gods is declared. Trembling and cowering in fear, false gods sense the rattling of spears forged for the
armies of the giants. The will of false pretenders withdraw from the might of the giants who gather in ever greater numbers.
Recruitment limit in friendly dominion +1, dominion gains a +3 conflict bonus, Mekone and Phlegran giants recruitment cost
-10
National Rituals: Utgård (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 6 Illwinter B5W3 120 - - NUW
The caster sacrifices the blood of innocent virgins in an attempt to revive the old Rimtursar, ancient giants of terrible might
and the ancestors of the Jotun. The giants are slow to awaken but their presence will cause blizzards, wolf attacks and
severe cold all over the world. The Illwinter is the most feared of all omens and unrest will increase worldwide.
Affects entire world. 50% chance of unrest +d4, Cold +1 for every 4 months, random attacks in cold provinces. Allows
recruitment of one Niefel Giant in every fort for Jotun nations.
National Rituals: Vaettiheim (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 6 Illwinter B5W3 120 - - NUW
The caster sacrifices the blood of innocent virgins in an attempt to revive the old Rimtursar, ancient giants of terrible might
and the ancestors of the Jotun. The giants are slow to awaken but their presence will cause blizzards, wolf attacks and
severe cold all over the world. The Illwinter is the most feared of all omens and unrest will increase worldwide.
Affects entire world. 50% chance of unrest +d4, Cold +1 for every 4 months, random attacks in cold provinces. Allows
recruitment of one Niefel Giant in every fort for Jotun nations.
216
[[page 217]]
Other Rituals
The spells listed here are rituals which do not summon
creatures and are not global enchantments. This is an
artificial distinction for the purposes of the manual, only. For
game purposes, all rituals, whether summoning or not, are
subject to the rules for rituals and are treated as such.
Rituals marked with anonymous can target the enemy
without them knowing who cast the ritual or where it
originated from. For some rituals the enemy might not even
be sure if it was a random event or a hostile ritual. Rituals
marked with limited can only be cast once per target
province. Multiple rituals can be cast if they target different
provinces.
Fire Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 1 Distill Gold F1 10 - - +250 gold
The alchemist distills gold from minerals. The process is time consuming and requires the alchemist to use fire gems.
Alt 3 Inner Sun F1S1 1 - - UndIm
This spell provides the mage with a way to retaliate when attacked by undead warriors. When the mage is slain, a shower of
light will shoot forth from the body and burn all undead beings in the vicinity. The Inner Sun spell is a ritual and will last until
the mage is killed.
Explosion: 15 AN MR dmg (undeads and demons only), 35 AoE
Alt 5 Transmute Fire F2 10 - - +350 gold
The alchemist transmutes fire gems into gold. Every gem spent gives the alchemist several pounds of gold.
Thau 3 Augury F2 2 5 - NUW
The caster pours oil on a pile of soil from a distant province and sets it ablaze. The flickering flames will reveal all hidden
sites of fiery power in the province.
Evo 4 Breath of the Desert F3A1 5 5 - NUW, Anon, Lim
The caster curses a distant province with a dramatic rise in temperature. The mage can target any province of his choice and
those affected will not know who has cast this spell upon them.
Heat scale +3, Population -5%.
217
key meaning
School school of magic
Alt Alteration
Conj Conjuration
Const Construction
Ench Enchantment
Thaum Thaumaturgy
Blood Blood Magic
Path magical paths
A / S / B / Air / aStral / Blood / Death
D
E / F / N / Earth / Fire / Nature / Water
W
H / ? Holy / Random path
Cost Number of gems required for casting. The type of gem
matches the primary path (listed first).
Rng Range in number of provinces. No range means it takes
effect where it is casted.
Dmg Damage
AP Armor-Piercing (protection halved)
AN Armor-Negating
UndIm Undead are Immune
InanimIm Inanimates are Immune
MindIm Mindless are Immune
Detect Can target stealthy units
Anon Anonymous, enemy will not know who cast the ritual
Lim Limited to one spell per target province
UW Can only be cast underwater
NUW Cannot be cast underwater
[[page 218]]
Thau 5 Pyre of Catharsis F3 4 - - InanimIm, NUW
Catharsis was once the spirit of the Purifying Flames. He would cleanse bodily sicknesses of those who exposed themselves
to his flames. Since his corruption by the Daevas and the wicked Mainyus he no longer controls the Purifying Flames and any
powerful fire mage can wield his flames. With this ritual the caster sets himself ablaze on a pyre of Purifying Flames. The
flames burns away any diseases he carries, but the caster is likely to suffer terribly from the flames unless properly
protected.
Evo 4 Fate of Oedipus F4 75 - -
The caster punishes a mage for having claimed the Eyes of God. The mage's eyes are blasted by brilliance, his eye sockets
emptied forever, and the Eyes of God no longer observe the world. This spell can only be cast if the Eyes of God
enchantment is active.
Evo 5 Fires from Afar F4 10 3 20+ AP, NUW, Anon
The mage fires a row of flame bolts towards an enemy army camp located in a province far away. The more units present in
the camp, the greater the chance of hitting a target. The spell can also be used to harass a besieging force or the defenders of
a castle. A scout or a scrying spell will be required to see whether the spell was successful or not.
Evo 9 Volcanic Eruption F4E3 25 6 - NUW, Anon
The caster unleashes a volcanic eruption upon a distant province, destroying the lands and killing one third of the
population.
Population -30%, Unrest +30.
Ench 7 Dome of Flaming Death F4 8 - - NUW
An invisible web of Fire magic is created over the entire province where this spell is cast. Any enemy spells cast into the
protected province will trigger the deadly trap. A powerful blast of fire will find its way to the casting mage and burn him and
possibly also the laboratory to cinders. The more magic gems put into the spell, the longer the dome lasts. If the mage who
cast the dome dies, the dome dissolves instantly. The dome does not stop spells that pass through it, but it may stop the
offending mage from ever casting spells again.
Dome Trap: 2d20 AP fire dmg. Luck scale reduces the chance of the laboratory burning down. Friendly casters will also be
affected.
Thau 5 Raging Hearts F4 10 5 - Anon
Fury will start to grow in the hearts of all people in an entire province. Those affected will soon start to plunder and kill their
fellow citizens. A mage can target any province of his choice and those affected will not know who has cast this spell on
them.
Population -5%, Unrest +60.
Evo 7 Elemental Opposition of F5 60 - -
Water
The caster channels vast amounts of Fire Arcana against all active Global Water Enchantments to simultaneously dispel
them. The gems spent, in excess of the cost to cast the spell, is compared to the gems used to overcast each of the Global
Enchantments. If the Opposition matches any of the Globals, that Global is dispelled.
Evo 9 Flames from the Sky F5 30 4 20+ AP, NUW, Anon
With this spell, the mage hurls a maelstrom of flaming spheres towards an enemy province. The flame storm will strike an
enemy army camp within the province with enormous force. Most likely, the majority of the units present will die from this
powerful attack, but units resistant to fire or more sturdy than ordinary humans have a good chance of surviving. Through
this ritual, the fire mage will also be able to see exactly what is happening as the flaming spheres strike the enemy.
Ench 6 Vafur Flames F5 10 - - NUW, Fort only
This spell recreates the legendary enchantment of Asgård. The fortress is surrounded by a ring wall of enchanted flames.
The flames are able to read the intentions of those who approach and will let friends pass safely through. Flying beings that
pass over the flames will still be put on fire, but the damage will be less severe than for those walking through.
Enemies walking through: 10 AP fire dmg. Enemies flying through: 5 AP fire dmg. Enchantments lasts 1 turn + 3 turns / extra
gem.
218
[[page 219]]
Thau 6 Choleria F5 20 5 -
The caster affects a friendly province with the humor of fire, choleria. The populace becomes energetic and productive, but
also easy to anger. Production and income are increased, but quarrels are common and unrest will gradually increase.
Scale of Production is increased by 2. Unrest increases by 1d6 each month. The enchantment lasts longer if more gems are
used in the casting.
Air Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 4 Cloud Trapeze A2 3 5 - NUW
The caster swings himself up and away with incredible speed, landing in a province far away. Although much faster than
normal flying, the caster does not really teleport and can have the path blocked by impassable mountains ranges or the Sea
of Ice global enchantment.
Thau 3 Carrier Birds A2 2 4 - NUW
This ritual summons a large flock of birds that will quickly transport the mage's magic gems to a commander in another
province. A maximum of 15 magic gems can be transported and blood slaves are too heavy to be carried at all. The
commander who receives the gems cannot belong to another nation.
Thau 3 Carrier Eagle A2 3 4 - NUW
This ritual summons a large eagle that will quickly transport a magic item to a commander in another province. Heavy items
cannot be transported by this ritual. The commander who receives the magic item cannot belong to another nation.
Thau 4 Auspex A2 2 2 - NUW
The caster listens to the winds and observes the flight of birds. The winds will carry legends of magical places and ancient
storms. If the winds are correctly interpreted, the caster gains knowledge of sites of Air power in a distant province. This
spell cannot be cast at an enemy province.
Evo 4 Hurricane A3 5 5 - NUW, Anon, Lim
The caster unleashes a violent hurricane upon a province, devastating the countryside. The hurricane will appear as a
natural event. Unrest will increase and part of the population will die.
Ench 3 Seeking Arrow A3 4 3 8 AN, Anon
The caster sends an enchanted arrow across the world to find a suitable heart to penetrate. The arrow will target one leader
in a province of the caster's choice.
8 AN magic dmg that always hits the chest.
Evo 7 Thunderstorm A4 30 3 28+ AN, NUW, Anon
The caster unleashes a devastating thunderstorm upon an enemy army. Lightning strikes randomly hit the army, killing and
maiming many. The storm is localized and doesn't affect the civilian population of the province.
Conj 5 Raven Feast A4 3 5 - NUW
The caster summons an unkindness of ravens and sends them into a distant province to feast upon the newly dead. The
ravens consume the rotting corpses and return to be slaughtered for the raw death essence they then contain. Provinces
struck by plagues or containing recent battlefields can give the caster large amounts of Death gems. All unburied dead in a
province are consumed. Enemy provinces can be targeted.
Death gems gained from a province with about 100 unburied corpses: 5. Death gems gained from a province with about 400
unburied corpses: 10.
Conj 5 Messenger Crows A4 6 4 -
The caster sends out a vast murder of crows to scout a distant province. The birds will continue to scout the province until
the spell ends or until the province is lost. Enemy scouts and sneaking armies will become aware that crows are present
everywhere, glaring suspiciously.
Patrol strength +50 patrol vs enemy units. Duration: 1 month + 3 months per extra gems.
219
[[page 220]]
Ench 5 Trade Wind A4 10 - - NUW
The caster creates a perpetual stable wind in a coastal province that enables merchants to quickly sail to and from the
province. The trade wind will greatly increase the income from the province. The spell lasts longer for every gem spent on
the ritual. The enchantment will dissipate if the province is lost.
Coastal province income +25%.
Evo 7 Elemental Opposition of A5 60 - -
Earth
The caster channels vast amounts of Air Arcana against all active Global Earth Enchantments to simultaneously dispel them.
The gems spent, in excess of the cost to cast the spell, is compared to the gems used to overcast each of the Global
Enchantments. If the Opposition matches any of the Globals, that Global is dispelled.
Conj 5 Wind Ride A5 10 3 - NUW
The Air mage summons a whirlwind in a province of his choice. The whirlwind will try to find a commander in the province
and transport him to where the Air mage is located. This spell is an effective way to rescue cornered commanders, but it can
also be a very effective way to get enemy commanders out of the way. Large beings are difficult or impossible to lift and
might fall to the ground somewhere along the way, possibly dying upon impact. Powerful Earth mages are likewise difficult
to transport.
Size 8+ targets, earth 4+ mages and ethereal beings are impossible to lift. Skilled air mages will take less damage from
falling.
Ench 6 Dome of Solid Air A5 20 - - NUW
A dome made out of air is created over the entire province the mage is in. The dome will protect the province from many
spells that originate outside the warded province. While undisturbed, the spell will last indefinitely, but if a spell passes
through the dome, or if the mage who cast the dome dies, it will shatter instantly.
Dome Protection 80%. Destroyed if it fails to block a spell. Friendly spells will also be blocked.
Thau 6 Sanguinia A5 20 5 -
The caster affects a friendly province with the humor of air, sanguinia. Sanguine people are enthusiastic, social and active.
The province will become a place of merriment, festivities and good spirits. Unrest will continuously decrease in the
province.
Unrest is reduced by 1d6 each month. The enchantment lasts longer if more gems are used in the casting.
Water Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 2 Scrying Pool W1G1 2 5 - NUW
The mage will enchant a pool of water to provide images of a province far away. The more magic gems spent on the scrying
pool, the longer it will last. The information gained by scrying is much more accurate than a normal scout can provide.
Conj 4 Voice of Apsu W2 2 3 -
The caster conjures the dreams of Apsu, the Fresh Water Underneath. He has knowledge of all sweet water. The voice of his
dreams, when rightly interpreted, reveals sites of Water power located above the surface. The dreams will find their way to
everyone living in the targeted province and the magical sites will no longer be hidden.
Conj 5 Voice of Tiamat W2 8 4 - UW
The caster conjures up the dreams of Tiamat, the Raging Sea. She has knowledge of all that lies underneath the sea. The
voice of her dreams, when rightly interpreted, reveals all sites of Elemental power in a sea. The dreams will find their way to
everyone living in that province and the magical sites will no longer be secret. This spell can only be cast under water.
Alt 4 Wolven Winter W3 5 5 - Anon, Lim
The caster curses a distant province with a dramatic fall in temperature. The mage can target any province of his choice and
those affected will not know who has cast this spell upon them.
Cold scale +3, Population -5%.
220
[[page 221]]
Evo 7 Murdering Winter W5 40 4 8 AN, Anon, Lim
A sudden, furious blizzard will strike an enemy army camp in a province of the mage's choice. The blizzard is very powerful
and will kill most normal men unless they are located in a hot province. The spell will be extremely powerful if it is cast in a
very cold province and almost useless if cast in a very hot province. The spell has a very large area of effect and most of the
enemy army is likely to be affected. Commanders have access to the good tents and will take reduced damage from the cold.
The ritual can target cave provinces, but the effect will be much reduced there.
Evo 7 Elemental Opposition of W5 60 - -
Fire
The caster channels vast amounts of Water Arcana against all active Global Fire Enchantments to simultaneously dispel
them. The gems spent, in excess of the cost to cast the spell, is compared to the gems used to overcast each of the Global
Enchantments. If the Opposition matches any of the Globals, that Global is dispelled.
Evo 8 Tidal Wave W5 15 6 - Anon
The caster unleashes a huge tidal wave upon a distant province, destroying the lands and killing the people.
Population -30%, Unrest +50.
Alt 7 Ice Walls W5 15 - - NUW, Fort only
The caster strengthens the walls of a castle by covering them in ice, making the walls very difficult to breach. The ice walls
get thicker the colder the province is and will disappear if the province should become non-cold. The alteration lasts as long
as the caster remains alive, the province is cold and the fort is not conquered. The enchantment will not help an already
breached wall.
Wall integrity increase: 500*cold scale points Walls are magic and ethereal units cannot pass through
Ench 6 Frost Dome W5 15 - -
A frost dome is created over the entire province where the spell is cast. Any spells cast into this dome will trigger the deadly
trap. A powerful frost blast will find its way to the enemy mage and freeze him to death. Every spell cast into the dome has a
30 percent chance of being destroyed by the frost dome. The more magic gems put into the spell, the longer it will last. If the
mage who cast the dome dies, it will dissolve instantly.
Dome Protection: 30%. Dome Trap: d15 AN cold dmg. Friendly spells will also be blocked.
Thau 6 Phlegmatia W5 20 5 -
The caster curses a province with the humor of water, phlegmatia. The population becomes passive, quiet and unproductive.
Work as well as religious duties are ignored and soldiers in the province are likely to desert.
Scale of sloth is increased by 3. Dominion is reduced by 1-2. All units in the province must make a MR check vs 10 and a
morale check vs 10. If they fail both they desert.
Earth Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 2 Alchemical Transmutation E1 10 - - +200 gold
The alchemist transmutes base metals into precious ones. The process is time consuming and requires the alchemist to use
earth gems.
Alt 4 Blight E2D1 5 5 - Anon, Lim
The caster unleashes a blight upon a distant province. Five percent of the population will die, unrest increases and one
hundred and twenty pounds of gold must be used to feed the starving.
Population -5%, Unrest +15, Gold -120
Alt 6 Earth Gem Alchemy E2 10 - - +300 gold
The alchemist transmutes earth gems into precious metals. Every gem spent gives the alchemist several pounds of gold.
Thau 4 Gnome Lore E2 3 3 -
The caster bestows the knowledge of the gnomes upon himself and uses it to find places of Earth power. The spell will find
all magic Earth sites in a friendly province of the caster's choice.
221
[[page 222]]
Alt 8 Wizard's Tower E4 50 4 -
The caster raises a tall impregnable stone tower from the ground in any friendly province within range. It is very difficult to
break down the walls of this tower, but the administrative facilities are not to the same high standard.
Thau 5 Earth Sense E4 6 - -
The caster attunes himself with the earth itself to sense who treads upon it. Enemies trying to sneak around in the province
will be detected and traced, even if invisible. The spell is broken if the caster leaves the province.
Patrol strength +100 vs enemy units. Able to detect invisible units as well. Duration: 1 month + 3 months per extra gems.
Evo 7 Elemental Opposition of Air E5 60 - -
The caster channels vast amounts of Earth arcana against all active Global Air Enchantments to simultaneously dispel them.
The gems spent, in excess of the cost to cast the spell, is compared to the gems used to overcast each of the Global
Enchantments. If the Opposition matches any of the Globals, that Global is dispelled.
Alt 7 Iron Walls E5 10 - - Fort only
The caster transforms the stone walls of a castle into iron walls, making it almost impregnable. The alteration lasts longer if
additional gems are used in the ritual, but will end prematurely if the caster should be killed. The enchantment will not help
an already breached wall.
Wall integrity increase: 2000 points Walls are magic and ethereal units cannot pass through
Alt 6 Crumble E5 20 4 -
The caster unleashes great power upon a besieged castle. The walls of the castle will fall apart and debris will crash down
upon the unwary defenders.
Wall Damage: 300 +25 points for each additional Earth skill level 50% of the defenders must roll for defence or get 3 AP
blunt damage.
Conj 8 Earth Attack E5 5 4 - Anon
A huge Earth Elemental will appear in a province of the caster's choice. Here, it will travel under the ground and search for
enemy commanders. When it finds one, it will rise out of the ground and strike it down. The Earth Elemental disappears
when it has completed this task or if it can't find an enemy commander. The elemental can only find targets that are
grounded, thus floating beings will never be attacked by the elemental.
Ench 7 Lion Sentinels E5 30 - - Fort only
The caster sculpts eleven statues of lions and enchants them with powerful magic. Ten of them are placed outside the castle
walls and the eleventh on the courtyard. Order and prosperity flowers as the lions sentinels protect the inhabitants and
guard them from harm. Should the castle be attacked the lions will come to life and attack the besieging army. The lions are
magical beings and require magical leadership. Should the lion in the courtyard be destroyed the lions will crumble, unless a
mage can take command over the remaining lions.
Eleven Marble Lions guard the fortress if the castle is stormed. The enchantment also increases the order scale by +1.
Thau 6 Melancholia E5 20 5 -
The caster curses a province with the humor of earth, melancholia. The populace becomes depressed, cynical and listless.
Peasants don't care about harvesting and let their livestock wander. Craftsmen only work when they feel like it and soldiers
tend to desert unless whipped into obedience. Even the temples are left untended. The Dominion of the local god will
decrease.
Scale of Sloth is increased by 2. Dominion is reduced by 2-3. All units in the province must make a MR check vs 10 and a
morale check vs 10. If they fail both they desert.
Evo 9 Lost Land E6W5 100 3 - NUW, Anon
This most powerful ritual will cause an entire province to slowly sink until it has become lost far under the surface of the sea.
While the land sinks slowly it will still be difficult for the population to escape and those who live too far away from safety
are likely to drown. Military units in the land are likely to escape if they are fast moving. If they can fly or float they are
guaranteed to make it away safely if possible.
One coastal province is drowned. 50% of the population dies. Units have a chance to escape depending on map move (50%
at map move 10).
222
[[page 223]]
Astral Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Evo 1 Astral Projection S1 2 7 -
The caster's mind is separated from his body and travels the Astral Planes in search of military information. His mind and
body are connected with a silvery cord, which can be detected by unfriendly Astral mages. Once detected, the cord of the
mage can be severed - a traumatic experience indeed. Each casting of this ritual allows the mage to scry on one province.
The use of extra astral pearls increases the duration of the ritual.
Duration: 1 month + 1 / extra astral pearl. Astral cord detection chance = 40% * enemy mage's astral level.
Evo 3 Arcane Probing S1 3 4 -
The caster projects his astral self in an attempt to locate sites of Astral power. This spell can only be used to search for magic
in friendly provinces.
Conj 5 Acashic Record S2 10 10 -
This spell lets the caster access the acashic records to find out the history for one nation. The spell must be targeted on a
capital to give any useful information.
Ench 5 Ritual of Returning S2 3 - -
The mage will return to the home citadel at once if he is wounded. The spell lasts until the mage actually has been wounded
and returned home. This ritual will result in swift death for a mage if the home citadel has been conquered by the enemy.
Thau 4 Astral Window S2 3 6 -
The caster opens an arcane rift through which he can observe distant lands. The rift closes after a while, but the duration
can be prolonged if extra magic gems are used in the casting. Each casting of this ritual allows the mage to scry on one
province. The information gained by this spell is much more accurate than a normal scout can provide.
Duration: 1 month + 1 month per extra magic pearl
Thau 5 Teleport Item S2 3 6 -
This ritual can be used by an astral mage to teleport a single magic item to a commander in a province far away. Heavy items
cannot be transported by this ritual. The commander who receives the magic item cannot belong to another nation.
Alt 5 Baleful Star S3 7 7 - NUW, Anon, Lim
The caster invokes the great Maleficent and forces the evil star to take a conjunctive position in the heavens above one
province, causing unfortunate events and evil deeds to occur. Anyone exposed to the evil star risks getting cursed for the
rest of his life.
Conj 6 Acashic Knowledge S3 25 10 -
This spell lets the caster tap information from the memory of the Spheres to reveal the presence of all magical sites in a
given province. The spell cannot be used to find magic sites in enemy provinces.
Ench 5 Dispel S3 30 - -
This enchantment enables a mage to destroy an active global enchantment. The power of global enchantments is often
boosted with the use of additional gems. This number of gems must be matched in order for the dispel to work.
Thau 3 Teleport Gems S3 2 6 -
This ritual can be used by an astral mage to teleport all his magic gems to a commander in a province far away. A maximum
of 10 magic gems can be transported and blood slaves are not affected by this ritual. The commander who receives the gems
cannot belong to another nation.
Thau 4 Teleport S3 2 6 -
With this spell, the mage can transport himself to almost any province in the world, only those very very far away are out of
range for this ritual.
Evo 6 Mind Hunt S4 2 6 - AN, Detect, Anon
The caster's mind is separated from his body and travels the astral planes in search of enemy commanders' minds. His mind
and body are connected with a silvery cord, which can be detected by unfriendly Astral mages. Once detected, the cord of
the mage can be severed - a traumatic experience indeed. Each casting of this ritual allows the mage to find and attack one
enemy commander in a specific province. The attack will be either a Mind Burn or Soul Slay spell, depending on which spell
the caster knows. There will be no attack if he doesn't know either of those spells.
223
[[page 224]]
Astral cord detection chance = 40% * enemy mage's astral level.
Conj 6 Ether Gate S4D1 90 - -
This ritual opens a gate to the Astral Plane and summons a clan of Ether Warriors led by an Ether Lord. The Ether Warriors
were banished from this world in ancient times. Their wars drained the world of Arcana and they were forced to enter other
realms of existence in order to continue their clan wars. The lesser races and their gods sealed the Astral Gates to rid the
world of the plague. Ether Warriors are, naturally, ethereal and thus very difficult to harm with non-magical weapons. They
use Moon Blades, magical swords that cause additional damage to magical beings. When the gate opens, vast powers are
released and the magic level is increased in the province. If cast with additional gems the gate will last for several months
and further rituals that summons Ether Warriors will have increased effect.
The Gate increases the magic scale by +2. The gate increases the number of Ether Warriors summoned from other rituals by
+2.
Ench 6 Dome of Arcane Warding S4 10 - -
An astral dome is created over the entire province that the mage is located in. The dome will protect the province from
many spells that originate from outside the warded province. The more magic gems put into the spell, the longer it will last. If
the mage dies, the dome dissolves instantly. The dome has a 50 percent chance of stopping each spell that tries to pass
through it.
Horror Protection: 60% (halved against doom horrors).
Ench 8 Void Pattern Labyrinth S4G3 10 - -
A void pattern dome is created over the province that the mage is located in.  This pattern is invisible to human perception,
but horrors will see the strange pattern and get confused and led astray when trying to pass.  The dome will protect the
province from any horrors trying to attack from the outside, including against those drawn to horror marks.  The more magic
gems put into the spell, the longer it will last.  If the mage dies, the void pattern labyrinth dissolves instantly.  The chance of
warding off a Doom Horror is lower than for normal horrors.
Ench 9 Dome of Seven Seals S4E4 14 - -
A magic dome is created over the entire province. The dome offers perfect protection against hostile magic targeted at the
province, while allowing friendly mages to temporarily deactivate the seals and have their spells pass through. All friendly
astral mages will know how to get through the seals safely. Each time a spell is stopped by the dome, one of the seven seals
will crack. Once all seals are cracked or the caster dies the dome will dissolve.
Thau 6 Imprint Souls S4 15 5 -
The people of a small village in a remote province will have their minds gradually broken down. When they are entirely
lobotomized, their minds will be imprinted with religious zeal towards the rightful Pretender God. When the conversion is
complete, they will attack the province in an attempt to conquer it and serve their God to the best of their abilities. This is a
very dangerous process, many people die and most of the survivors are not fully restored with the proper religious zeal. A
skillful mage and extra penetration skill from magic items will help in successful conversion of the villagers.
Souls imprinted = 120 + extra level * 4. Success imprint chance: 12% + penetration strength * 6%, Death chance: 50%
Thau 6 Gateway S4 10 6 -
The caster creates a rift in the fabric of space, allowing him to step through with all troops under his command and enter a
distant laboratory that has been prepared for the gateway. The gateway can only lead to a lab controlled by the same nation,
and it closes as soon as the troops have passed through.
Thau 9 Arcane Analysis S4 25 - -
With this ritual a skillful astral mage can send a thaumaturgical probe into the ether in order to examine the strength and
weaknesses of a global enchantment. The mage chooses a single global enchantment to examine and he will get a fairly
accurate measure of the number of astral pearls worth of overcast that would be required to dispel it.
Evo 9 Stellar Strike S5E3 20 5 150 Anon
By reading the stars carefully the astral mage will be able to foresee the perfect opportunity to inflict maximum damage on
the enemy. When it is time a large swarm of meteors will be coaxed to fall down from the sky just as they pass above an
enemy army camp in a faraway province. The astral mage will be able to observe the event as the meteors hit.
224
[[page 225]]
Alt 7 Enchanted Walls S5 10 - - Fort only
By enchanting the walls of a castle they will become slightly more difficult to breach, but more importantly ethereal beings
will not be able to pass through the walls.
Wall integrity increase: 100 Walls are magic and ethereal units cannot pass through
Ench 7 Disenchantment S5 50 - -
This ritual is a more powerful Dispel. If cast at sufficient power it will destroy an active global enchantment, but if it fails it
will still reduce the power of the targeted enchantment.
Destroys a global enchantment if cast with enough power. Lowers the overcast level of a global enchantment by half the
overcast level of Disenchantment.
Thau 7 Divine Name S5 25 - -
The caster inscribes a divine name on a piece of paper and places it in the head of a mindless being. The being is gifted with
an artificial mind and commanding abilities. The caster can also inscribe the name on the forehead of a willing target,
increasing his mental faculties and making him a commander.
Thau 8 Astral Travel S5 25 5 -
The caster creates a rift in the fabric of space, allowing him to step through with all troops under his command and enter a
distant province.
Thau 9 Nexus Gate S5E3 40 - -
The caster enscribes and enchants a great stone archway, creating an arcane portal to Nexus, a place between places.
Armies may hereafter use the portal to enter Nexus. Nexus is connected to all active Nexus Gates and individuals and
armies in Nexus may leave through any gate, even those created by other Pretenders. The Nexus Gate is permanent and
once created it cannot be dispelled. Dwelling in Nexus for longer than necessary is not recommended, as it is located in the
Void where horrors thrive.
Creates a permanent gate between the current province and Nexus.
Thau 9 Astral Disruption S6 60 - -
The mage manipulates the astral plane, creating ripples that overload the world with magic. This magic overload will dispel
all enchantments in the entire world if done with enough strength. However manipulating the astral world in such a great
way always comes with a certain risk, both to the world and the mage performing the ritual.
Destroys all global enchantments if cast with enough power. Destroys all local enchantments. Increases magic and horror
marks in entire world. Might increase maximum number of global enchantment slots if cast with much power.
Alt 9 Wish S9 100 - -
This ritual taps the primal powers from beyond the Spheres. By projection of his own will upon the Principle of Beginning,
the caster can affect the very processes of creation and receive an answer to his wish. There are many things to wish for, but
the outcome is not always good. If you want something good and safe, you can try wishing for an artifact or magic gems.
Death Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 3 Dark Knowledge D1 4 3 -
The caster summons a spirit of the Underworld and coerces it to reveal knowledge of sites of Death in a distant province.
The spell can not be used to find magic in enemy provinces.
Ench 4 Twiceborn D2 10 - - UndIm, InanimIm, SpiIm
With this ritual, the necromancer enchants his own body to protect himself from death. If the necromancer is slain, he is
revived as a Wight Mage in the province where the ritual was cast, possibly gaining dark insights in the process. For the
ritual to work, the province it was cast in must be in friendly hands when the necromancer dies. This spell requires more
power to affect large beings and the cost of casting the ritual is increased with the caster's size. Undead, demons, plants,
inanimates, pretender gods as well as most monsters that aren't even remotely humanoid (e.g. hydras and sea serpents)
cannot be twiceborned.
225
[[page 226]]
Ench 7 Ritual of Rebirth D4 15 - - NUW
The caster of this spell revives a previously slain hero via the ancient Ritual of Rebirth. The ritual mummifies the dead hero
before bringing him or her back to life. Only great heroes from the Hall of Fame can be resurrected by this ritual. The ritual
can be performed multiple times on a single hero. Inanimate or undead beings are not affected by this spell
Conj 8 Manifestation D5 4 4 - NUW
With this spell, an Ashen Angel is summoned with the promise of an opportunity to kill a commander in this realm and to
bring his soul back to the Lord of the Netherworld. The Ashen Angel will appear in a province of the mage's choice and
search for a suitable commander. If no suitable commander is found, the Angel will return to the mage and kill him instead. A
commander who is horror marked runs a greater risk of being chosen by the Angel.
Ench 9 Lichcraft D5 25 - - UndIm, InanimIm, SpiIm
With knowledge of this ritual, the Death mage has discovered the means to remove his own viscera and place it in a jar,
killing himself, only to return as an immortal undead being of great power. By dying and returning from the dead the Lich
gains insights and powers in the path of death magic. Furthermore, the body of the Lich becomes almost impossible to harm
with mundane weapons. Should the body of the Lich be physically destroyed, a new one is formed from the dust of the dead.
The caster dies and returns as an undead, immortal Lich. The Lich is empowered in death magic. Pretenders can't use this
ritual.
Thau 6 Leprosy D5 10 4 - MR, UndIm, InanimIm
The mage conjures forth a wasting disease upon an enemy army in a distant province. Diseased targets will never regain any
lost hit points and will take damage every season they are alive. Undead, demons and inanimate beings are not affected by
this spell.
50% of the units in the targeted province must make a MR check or get diseased.
Thau 8 Stygian Paths D5 15 10 -
All lands are connected to the Underworld and every location in the Underworld corresponds to a location in the lands of
the living, but time passes differently in the Underworld. By traveling in the Underworld, great distances can be covered in a
short period of time. When this ritual is cast, a gateway into the realm of the dead is opened. The necromancer then leads his
followers on dark paths through the Underworld to emerge in a faraway province. The journey, however, is not free from
risk: no one is allowed to leave the lands of the dead. Everyone using the Stygian paths risks injury or even death by
poisoning, spirit attacks or fates even worse. Stealthy units are less likely to be detected by the guardians of the
Underworld.
Spirit attacks: 1 AN dmg + death MR attack. Stealthy units have only 20% chance of being attacked. Caster can not take
advantage of stealth.
Thau 8 Black Death D5 15 5 - Anon
The necromancer curses a province with the Black Death. This plague will kill thousands upon thousands of people. The spell
is targeted at the general population and will probably not affect the military units in the province.
Population -50%, Unrest +10
Conj 9 Tartarian Gate D7 7 - - NUW
The caster opens a gate to Tartarus and releases a dead Titan or Monstrum imprisoned in that horrible place. The Titans
were gods in ancient times, but were defeated and imprisoned in Tartarus aeons ago. The dead Titan once had tremendous
powers, but the imprisonment in the realm of perpetual pain might have destroyed the mind of the ancient god.
226
[[page 227]]
Nature Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 6 Transformation N2 8 - - UndIm, InanimIm, SpiIm
The caster is transformed into a random monster or animal. Some monsters, such as fire drakes, are closely attuned to an
element or other magical path. If the caster successfully transforms into such a being he might gain magic power. Also the
caster's new body is young and healthy. The transformation is not without risk, however, as the caster's mind and body may
be damaged in the process. Sometimes a failed transformation can result in the form of a mindless being and usually mind
and magic abilities are lost as a result. But sometimes a being with powerful magic can retain his magic ability as the magic is
too strong to let the absence of a mind stop it.
The caster transforms into a young monster, but lost limbs are still lost after the transformation. The chance of failure is
20% reduced or increased by the Luck/Misfortune scale value. If cast under water the transformation results in a water
being.
Thau 3 Haruspex N2 2 3 -
The caster opens the bellies of newly slaughtered animals and observes their livers. The state of the livers reveals distant
locations of Nature power.
Thau 3 Whispers of the Wild N2 3 4 -
The caster taps into the minds and perceptions of the animals of a distant forest province to gain insight into what transpires
in the province.
Scrying on a forest province The ritual last an additional month for each extra gem used.
Conj 5 Winged Monkeys N3S2 10 5 - NUW
The caster summons a troop of winged monkeys and sends them away to fetch a commander from a distant land. The
monkeys will try to grab and fly away with the helpless commander, but will attack if the target is too heavy. The monkeys
are afraid of mages and will never try to snatch a mage from the ground. The monkeys leave after they have accomplished
their mission.
Conj 6 Locust Swarms N3 8 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster unleashes swarms of locusts upon a province. The locusts will cause panic, consume crops and cause the loss of
taxes. The swarms will appear as a natural event.
Unrest +20, Income -50%.
Evo 7 Miasma N4 25 4 5+ AN, Anon
With this ritual a nature mage will try to poison an entire enemy army camp by releasing the poisonous gases that are
trapped under the ground. This ritual will only work against armies that are located in swamps or drip caves as only these
terrains have these gases trapped beneath them. The nature mage will be able to view the release of the gases through the
ritual and observe the effects on the enemy army.
Conj 5 Vermin Feast N4 6 4 -
The caster makes vermin like rats and cockroaches (or shrimps and crabs) attracted to the supply stores of a besieged castle.
The vermin will make sure that the supplies do not last very long. The more gems spent in this ritual the longer it will last.
Having more than one Vermin Feast ritual active on the same province will not add to the effect and the ritual has no effect
on an unbesieged castle.
Doubles the supply loss in a besieged castle.
Conj 7 Living Castle N4W1 40 4 - UW
The caster conjures a castle of living kelp and algae. The castle can only be created in a friendly sea. This spell cannot be cast
above the waves.
Ench 5 Faery Trod N4G1 20 10 -
The mage leads his army into a magic forest to find a Faery Trod. The army follows this strange path through faerie lands
and will finally arrive in a distant forest. Both the source and destination provinces must be forests for this spell to work.
Navigating on the faerie paths is a tricky adventure and it might be that you won't emerge exactly where you planned.
Chance of ending up in a neighboring forest province: 50% if completely surrounded by forests, 0% if no neighboring forest
provinces.
227
[[page 228]]
Thau 4 Cure Disease N4 5 - - InanimIm
This ritual cures a unit from disease, an affliction that otherwise is certain to result in a quick and early death. The target unit
must be in the same province as the caster.
Thau 5 Gift of Reason N4 20 - - MindIm
This gift grants commander status and a sharp intellect to any one being. The target unit must be in the same province as the
caster. Mindless units cannot be affected by the spell.
Ench 6 Forest Dome N5 10 - -
Vegetation will grow into a dome that covers the entire province where the spell is cast. The dome will protect the province
from many spells that originate outside the warded province. If left undisturbed, the forest dome will last forever. However,
if a Fire spell is absorbed by the dome, it may catch fire and be destroyed. If the caster dies, the dome will wither and die.
Dome Protection 30%. Destroyed by Fire Spells. Friendly spells will also be blocked.
Glamour Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 2 Tapestry of Dreams G2 4 4 -
The caster conjures the dreams and memories of a distant land and weaves them into a tapestry that reveals what
transpires in the province. The tapestry will dissolve over a month, but can be made to last longer if additional gems are used
in the casting.
Conj 4 At the End of the Rainbow G2 3 3 - NUW
The caster conjures dreams from beyond the Gate of Horn to find what lies hidden at the End of the Rainbow. All sites of
glamour in the targeted province are revealed.
Evo 5 Project Self G3S1 5 5 -
The caster sends a projection of himself to a distant land.  The projection is an ethereal replica of the caster with the same
magical skills as the caster.  Items are not projected, gems and blood slaves cannot be used, but any path boosting magic
items will still have effect.  The projection is shortlived and will only last enough for one battle.  It can only be used against
hostile provinces as the projection won't last long enough to wait for any enemies to arrive in still friendly provinces. It
cannot be used on your own forts when they are under siege.
Ench 8 Dragon Master G3 30 - -
The caster claims lordship over all serpentkin. Every time the caster summons a Drake, Wyvern or Sea Serpent, two
additional beasts will heed the call.
Grants Dragon Mastery +2.
Ench 4 Simulacrum G3 20 - -
The caster creates a replica of himself and enchants it with glamour magic to give it false life. The simulacrum will be
controlled by the original owner's soul and the simulacrum also inherits all the magic powers of its creator. In turn the
creator's body is placed in a state of deep torpor that only ends when the simulacrum dies. However, there is a chance that
the caster's soul will fail to return and become trapped and lost in the dreamwild, possibly until his soul withers away and
dies.
The Simulacrum is an almost perfect copy of the caster and will be in play instead of the caster. If the Simulacrum dies the
caster will reappear where the ritual was cast. There is a 80% chance that the caster reappears a month after the
simulacrum's death. Each month thereafter the chance is reduced by half. The soul withers away after one year.
Thau 4 Vengeance of the Dead G3D1 3 5 - MR, UndIm, MindIm, Detect
The mage will contact the dead souls of all the people or creatures that the target has slain. These dead souls will then be
guided to the dreams of the target, where they can attack him in a horrible nightmare. The mage will ensure that the target
is pulled strongly into the nightmare, so that he stays dead if the dead souls are successful in killing him. This spell does not
work on mindless or undead beings and the target must have slain units in combat for the spell to work. One province is
chosen for the spell and the greatest butcher of all enemy commanders in that province will be targeted for the nightmare.
228
[[page 229]]
Alt 6 Mirage G4 20 4 - NUW
The mage creates an illusory castle in a distant province to fool neighboring nations. Only upon besieging the castle will the
truth be revealed to an advancing army. The enchantment lasts longer the more gems the caster invests.
Enchantments lasts 1 turn + 3 turns / extra gem.
Conj 7 Lore of Legends G4 20 - - NUW
The caster taps into the legends of the dreamwild to unearth long forgotten lore. For one month the caster's magic skills
become legendary and his skills in all magic paths are increased. After a month has passed the powers fade and the caster is
once more bound by the restrictions of this world.
The caster gains +1 in all his magic paths for one month.
Thau 6 Beckoning G4N2 20 4 - MR
The caster awakens the forces of the wild, which call out to lure the unwary. Those who fall prey vanish into the woodlands,
never to be seen again. The Beckoning will only work in forests and forest beings are immune to the call. Those who are
strong of mind or duty will resist the call.
75+ enemy units will be killed (MR and difficult morale negates). Units with forest survival ignore the spell.
Alt 7 Immaculate Fort G5 10 - - Fort only
With the help of glamour a fortification and everything in it is made perfect, at least that is how it seems. The air is cleaner,
the food tastes better, the streets are always clean and all the buildings are in better shape than when they were just built.
The fortification also looks perfectly fine, no matter how much damage it sustains. This makes it very difficult to figure out
how to breach the walls, but when they are finally breached the opening will be seen.
Unrest Reduction: 5 / month Wall breakdown resistance: 50% Walls are magic and ethereal units cannot pass through
Ench 5 Dreamwild Demesne G5 10 - - NUW
The caster enchants an entire province with the magic of the Dreamwild, creating a land of hope and peace free from misery
and woe. As long as the enchantment is active unrest will decrease and few bad events will disturb the peace. The
enchantment is broken if the land is conquered by hostile forces.
Unrest -2d5, prevents 50% of bad events.
Ench 6 Dome of Misdirection G5 20 - - NUW
The entire province the mage is in is protected by a dome of glamour and illusions. The dome will fool enemy mages and
protect the warded province from spells that originate outside the dome and make them target a neighboring province
instead. The more magic gems put into the spell, the longer it will last.
Dome misdirection chance 70%. Friendly spells will also be misdirected.
Ench 7 Veil of Perpetual Mists G5 30 - - NUW
The caster shrouds an entire province in mists alive with whispers, screams and harrowing shapes. Anyone trying to enter
the province without the consent of the caster will find themselves led astray and leave the province from whence they
came. Troops with strong morale will follow their commander, but if he is weak of mind and succumbs to the enchantment
they will follow him when he leaves the province. The more magic gems put into the spell, the longer it will last.
Ench 7 Land of the Ever Young G5N1 10 - - NUW
With this enchantment in place everyone in the province will grow old much much slower than usual, only aging one year in
four winters. It is a very sought after enchantment for old mages who have much magic research left to do, but not enough
time to do it.
Thau 6 Forgotten Palace G5 15 3 - NUW
The caster casts a spell on a fortress in a nearby province and makes it disappear from everyone's memories. People are able
to see and interact with the fortification, but once they leave they will forget about it. Scouts will forget to report about the
palace and neighboring provinces will not know about it. Mages who scry upon the province will be able to see the
fortification however. The spell is broken if the fortification is besieged. The ritual can also be used to hide the construction
of the fortification.
229
[[page 230]]
Blood Rituals
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Blood 2 Bowl of Blood B1 5 5 - NUW
The caster fills a bowl with blood, mixes it with soil from a distant land and observes the five signs. The signs will reveal all
sites of blood power in that province.
Blood 3 Cross Breeding B1N1 15 - - NUW
Hundreds of different creatures from mice to humans are magically cross-bred and grown in an effort to produce a powerful
monster. Most offspring die early, but some survive and are bound to serve their creator. Luck is required to breed the more
powerful creatures.
Blood 5 Wrath of Pazuzu B1A3 15 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster unleashes an infernal tempest from the realm of Pazuzu upon a province. The storm is anything but natural and
Shedim, servants of Pazuzu, can be heard bellowing in the gale. The storm causes unrest and devastation upon a province.
Unrest +35, population -4%.
Blood 6 Rejuvenate B1 10 - - UndIm, InanimIm, NUW
The mage drenches himself in the blood of ten young girls in an attempt to become younger. Each offered girl will make the
caster one year younger.
Blood 3 Blood Feast B2 5 - - InanimIm, NUW
The caster has learned the recuperative secrets of cannibalism. In a gruesome ritual lasting a month he consumes the blood
and feast of ritually purified sacrifices. The blood feast requires copious amounts of flesh and blood of unpurified victims as
well however, so the populace in the province where the caster resides is slaughtered in great quantities. The flesh and
blood of the victims rejuvenates the caster, healing him of all or at least most afflictions. Bloodmages who partake too often
in blood feasts often develop uncontrollable cravings for human flesh. The ritual does not work on inanimate beings.
Removes up to 10 afflictions, kills up to 750 population, 25% chance to develop cravings
Blood 4 Blood Fecundity B2N2 10 - - NUW
The mage performs a great blood ceremony in order to increase the fertility of the land. The growth scale of the province
will be increased for as long as the ritual lasts. The spell lasts longer if more slaves are sacrificed.
Growth +2. Duration: 1 month +1 1 month per extra blood slave
Blood 8 Improved Cross Breeding B2N2 20 - - NUW
Hundreds of different creatures from mice to humans are magically cross-bred and grown in an effort to produce a powerful
monster. Most offspring die early, but some survive and are bound to serve their creator. Luck is required to breed the more
powerful creatures.
Blood 4 Hell Ride B3 10 3 - NUW
The caster summons a swarm of imps and commands them to carry him to a distant province with haste. Although
supernaturally fast the imps are not very strong and can't lift anything heavier than a human. While the imps are faster than
normal fliers they cannot teleport and can have the path blocked by impassable mountains, cave walls or the Sea of Ice
global enchantment.
Blood 5 Rain of Toads B3N1 20 5 - NUW, Anon, Lim
The caster creates a horrible omen, turning the falling rain in a target province into toads. The target province will suffer
from unrest and misfortune. Soldiers stationed in the province will risk becoming diseased when dead toads fester in the
wells.
Unrest +40, misfortune +3, disease chance 4%.
Blood 7 Send Dream Horror B3S4 15 6 - NUW, Anon
The caster sends a Defiler of Dreams to attack a distant province. The Dream Horror will project nightmares and feed on the
emotional distress of its victims. Unrest will increase in the province until the Horror is found and slain. Dealing with horrors
is not without risk however and the caster of this ritual might attract some unwanted attention.
Unrest +30, Dream Horror summoned.
230
[[page 231]]
Blood 8 Horror Seed B3S4 25 6 - NUW
A Horror is sent to possess a far away enemy. The Horror hides its true self and spreads its evil ways, marking and cursing
soldiers in the province. The most horrible ability of the possessing Horror is to infect living soldiers with Parasitic Horrors.
These Parasitic Horrors sooner or later break the mind and body of their host, transforming them into full fledged Horrors.
Should the host of the Master Horror be slain, the true Horror will manifest and attack everything alive.
Blood 7 Dome of Corruption B4S4 20 - - NUW
The caster seals a pact with Horrors. The Horrors create a dome that protects the province from most spells that originate
from outside the warded province. Trying to cast a spell through this dome is very dangerous and might drive the casting
mage insane. A good side effect of the dome is that it exudes magic and will raise the magic scales of the province
considerably, making it easy for mages to do their research. The pact has a downside too, which will become apparent to
mages living under the dome. The creators of the dome will occasionally attack and consume a mage. The dome will dissolve
instantly if the caster of this ritual dies.
Blood 9 Infernal Fumes B4E3 40 4 10+ AP, NUW, Anon
This ritual opens up a way for the hot infernal gases trapped under the depths, to make their way into the sea. The blood and
earth mage casting the ritual will guide the fumes to just where the enemy forces are camping. The gases are blisteringly hot
and deadly poisonous to most living beings. The mage will also get a vision of the effect taking place.
Blood 3 Infernal Circle B5 5 - - NUW
The caster creates a circle with infernal symbols drawn in the blood of virgins. Blood rituals cast from the circle with have
their range increased. The circle will dissipate eventually, but the more blood slaves used for the circle, the longer it will last.
Blood ritual range +1 province. Duration: 1 month + 1 month per extra blood slave
Blood 6 Infernal Disease B5 5 5 - NUW, Anon
This ritual starts with a month of scribing complex magic symbols and eventually culminates with the sacrifice of five young
girls. When the ritual is finished, a Disease Demon is bound and ordered to attack an enemy commander wherever in the
world the caster chooses. The demon is very deadly and should be a sure way to kill an enemy.
Blood 8 Three Red Seconds B5 120 4 - NUW
The caster summons a horde of Imps and commands them to raise a fortress. In three red seconds, a mighty citadel is built in
a province of the caster's choice.
National Rituals: Arcoscephale (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Monster Boar N3 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster summons a monster boar and sends it to a distant province to ravage the land. The boar is a descendant of the
monster boars sent by the Lady of the Hunt to ravage the farmlands of obnoxious peasants. The boar will cause unrest in the
province until it is found and slain.
National Rituals: Mekone (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 0 Blessing of the God-slayer W1H1 5 - - NUW
At a grand ceremony witnessed by all, the Basileus inaugurates a Polemarch as champion of the God-slayer. Endowed with
unequaled battle prowess and charisma the Polemarch is expected to slay a false god within the upcoming year. Only one
champion can be blessed at the same time.
Grants att +5, def +5, always blessed, halt heretic +7, inspirational +1
231
[[page 232]]
National Rituals: Pangaea (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Monster Boar N3 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster summons a monster boar and sends it to a distant province to ravage the land. The boar is a descendant of the
monster boars sent by the Lady of the Hunt to ravage the farmlands of obnoxious peasants. The boar will cause unrest in the
province until it is found and slain.
Alt 0 Grow Fortress N4 35 - -
This ritual forces nature to form a complete fortress in a matter of weeks, sturdy enough to rival stone walls. Defenders can
stand on the walls and fire missiles from the parapets. This ritual can only be cast in forests or shallow seas, where nature
has plenty of material to build from.
National Rituals: Marverni (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Monster Boar N3 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster summons a monster boar and sends it to a distant province to ravage the land. The boar is a descendant of the
monster boars sent by the Lady of the Hunt to ravage the farmlands of obnoxious peasants. The boar will cause unrest in the
province until it is found and slain.
National Rituals: Pyrène (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Send Aatxe A3 6 4 - NUW, Anon
The Aatxe is a flaming bull spirit and servant of the Mother of Storms. It emerges from its cave abode during storms and bad
weather to punish those who have angered their mistress. In ancient times the Sorginak were granted the means to call the
Aatxe and send it against those who have wronged them or their mistress.
National Rituals: Agartha (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 4 Mirror of Earth's Memories W2E2 5 10 -
An Agarthan Oracle ventures down to the Womb of the Earth and gazes into the reflections of the First Pool to gain
knowledge of subterranean sources of magic. The spell reveals all magic sites of earth, fire, water and death in a distant cave
province.
Alt 8 Unleash Imprisoned Ones E6D4 100 - -
Since before the founding of Agartha there has been a forbidden chamber under the Roots of the Earth. Agarthan legends
tell of three dark gods of an earlier age imprisoned with the help of the first Pale Ones. The Seal was strengthened with the
souls of thousands of Pale Ones who gave their lives to protect the world from the Imprisoned Ones. Now the Seal seems to
be weakening and there are rumors of a crack in the Seal. Some Oracles of the Dead have heard silent whispers in their
dreams. Whispers of promise. A promise to spare the Agarthan people if the Imprisoned Ones are released. The oldest and
most influential of the Oracles of the Dead has spoken against it, but desperate times need desperate measures, and the
whispered promise has not been forgotten.
232
[[page 233]]
National Rituals: Abysia (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 6 Hellscape F4 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster calls on the fires of Rhuax to curse a distant province with blistering heat. Smoke and wildfires will erupt as the
very ground will burn with unnatural heat. The Hellscape will appear as an unnatural event, but those affected will not know
who has cast the curse upon them.
Heat Scale +3, Death Scale +1, Population -10%, Unrest +20.
Blood 3 Infernal Breeding B2 25 - - NUW
The Warlocks of Abysia have experimented with crossbreeding since they first discovered blood magic. Under the influence
of infernal magic Abysians, humans and giants are crossbred with demons, salamanders and other beasts. In the early days
most of the experiments were conducted on Abysians, but the wars with Hinnom made the blood of giants occasionally
available. In later times humans and humanbreds have dominated the breeding stock and abysian crossbreds are rarer. Due
to the creation process many Hell Spawn suffer from various afflictions and early aging.
National Rituals: T'ien Ch'i (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 5 Internal Alchemy W2S1 5 - - UndIm, InanimIm
The mystics and hermits of T'ien Ch'i have always been obsessed with longevity. Internal Alchemy is a method to transmute
the inner self instead of external substances. Meditation, severe asceticism and breathing techniques are used to access the
inner cinnabar fields in an attempt to alter them. Often the alchemist feeds on cinnabar, transmuted quicksilver, the most
highly regarded alchemical substance, during the process. The transformative nature of the cinnabar might also transmute
the mind of the hermit.
Age -15 years
National Rituals: Yomi (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 0 Hannya Pact D1 6 - - UndIm, InanimIm
The Namanari seals a pact with the Oni Kings, giving up her humanity to become a Chunari. The Chunari gains powers in
death and fire magic and a demonic nature. Jealous and greedy for power a Chunari will sooner or later strengthen her pact
with her masters losing her humanity altogether.
Conj 0 Greater Hannya Pact D2 12 - - UndIm, InanimIm
The Chunari seals a second and final pact with the Oni Kings, giving up the last shreds of humanity to become a true Hannya.
The Hannya gains further powers in death and fire magic. A fiery aura and a serpent tail are also given to her to remind her
of who her true masters are.
National Rituals: Caelum (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 7 Call of the Drugvant D4F1 15 4 - NUW, Anon
The Drugvant are the People of the Lie, those under the influence of evil intentions. With this ritual the caster lets loose the
will of the Destructive Spirit upon a remote land. Falsehood, wickedness and violence will spread in the province and in its
wake Daevas will come. Unrest is greatly increased and the province is attacked by bandits and a host of Daevas.
233
[[page 234]]
National Rituals: Machaka (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 5 Weavers of the Wood N4 6 - - NUW
The caster makes spiders large and small weave a giant web covering an entire forest province. Anyone trying to sneak
through the forest is highly likely to be detected as the caster monitors the webs. The caster of the ritual will be able to
direct both the local patrolling forces and spiders from the woods in order to attack any trespassers. The ritual will break if
the caster leaves the province.
Patrol strength +100 vs enemy units. Able to detect invisible beings as well. Spiders will aid patrolling forces in combat.
Duration: 1 month + 3 months per extra gems.
National Rituals: Rus (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Send Lady Midday A3D1 5 5 - NUW, Anon
The Lady Midday is a malign spirit of the noon. She appears as a young girl surrounded by whirling dust and armed with a
scythe that stinks of disease. Sometimes she will stop people and ask them a question. Failure to answer results in her
displeasure and she will use her scythe to disease or chop off the head of the victim. The caster of this ritual will contact the
spirit and force it to appear in a suitable province where it will attack and try to slay a commander.
National Rituals: Niefelheim (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 5 Seith Curse D1S1 3 5 - MR+, Detect, NUW, Anon
Seith is an ancient form of sorcery, reputedly invented by Angerboda. It has been practiced by females of the nation through
the ages. Gygjor, vaetti hags and human Seithkonur all have some knowledge of the Seith, but it is the Seithkonur of Utgård
that have mastered the art. Seith can be used to spell doom upon a distant target. When cast, a single enemy commander in
a faraway province is cursed for the rest of his life. However, the price is high, and the Fates will keep the balance. Someone
close to the caster will also suffer a curse.
National Rituals: Muspelheim (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 5 Seith Curse D1S1 3 5 - MR+, Detect, NUW, Anon
Seith is an ancient form of sorcery, reputedly invented by Angerboda. It has been practiced by females of the nation through
the ages. Gygjor, vaetti hags and human Seithkonur all have some knowledge of the Seith, but it is the Seithkonur of Utgård
that have mastered the art. Seith can be used to spell doom upon a distant target. When cast, a single enemy commander in
a faraway province is cursed for the rest of his life. However, the price is high, and the Fates will keep the balance. Someone
close to the caster will also suffer a curse.
National Rituals: Oceania (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 0 Grow Fortress N4 35 - -
This ritual forces nature to form a complete fortress in a matter of weeks, sturdy enough to rival stone walls. Defenders can
stand on the walls and fire missiles from the parapets. This ritual can only be cast in forests or shallow seas, where nature
has plenty of material to build from.
234
[[page 235]]
National Rituals: R'lyeh (age 1)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 3 Mind Vessel S3 15 2 -
This ritual puts a part of the Aboleth's mind in the humanlike vessel that has been bred for this purpose. After the ritual the
vessel will have little left of its own mind and the Aboleth part will have to guide it along. After the merging of minds the
vessel will be able to use its old magic knowledge as well as the astral knowledge of the Aboleth. The state of the Aboleth is
constantly influencing its vessel and should the Aboleth die the vessel will not survive for more than a few days at the most.
An Aboleth can not share his mind with more than one vessel at a time.
Vessel gets astral power of the Aboleth (levels over 5 are halved). Vessel dies if Aboleth dies.
National Rituals: Arcoscephale (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Monster Boar N3 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster summons a monster boar and sends it to a distant province to ravage the land. The boar is a descendant of the
monster boars sent by the Lady of the Hunt to ravage the farmlands of obnoxious peasants. The boar will cause unrest in the
province until it is found and slain.
National Rituals: Pangaea (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Monster Boar N3 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster summons a monster boar and sends it to a distant province to ravage the land. The boar is a descendant of the
monster boars sent by the Lady of the Hunt to ravage the farmlands of obnoxious peasants. The boar will cause unrest in the
province until it is found and slain.
Alt 5 Fort of the Ancients N4 35 - -
In ancient times, Pangaea made its forts not from mud and mortar but bramble and birch. This ritual forces nature to form a
complete fortress in a matter of weeks, sturdy enough to rival stone walls. The ritual can only be cast in forests or shallow
seas, where an appropriate amount of vegetation can be found.
National Rituals: Asphodel (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 0 Carrion Fortress N3D2 35 - -
This ritual forms a fortress of brambles, roots and bones in a matter of weeks, sturdy enough to rival stone walls. Defenders
can stand on the walls and fire missiles from the parapets. This ritual can only be cast in forests or shallow seas, where
nature has plenty of material to build from.
Ench 4 Dark Slumber N4D2 15 5 - NUW, Anon
The Caster calls on the wrath of the forest to engulf a village in a distant province. The villagers succumb to an enchanted
sleep and walk into the woods to die a dreamless death. Vines and roots begin to grow and reanimate the corpses. Within
days an army of manikin emerges from the woods to claim the province from the living.
National Rituals: Pyrène (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 6 Send Aatxe A3 6 4 - NUW, Anon
The Aatxe is a flaming bull spirit and servant of the Mother of Storms. It emerges from its cave abode during storms and bad
weather to punish those who have angered their mistress. In ancient times the Sorginak were granted the means to call the
Aatxe and send it against those who have wronged them or their mistress.
235
[[page 236]]
National Rituals: Abysia (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 6 Hellscape F4 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster calls on the fires of Rhuax to curse a distant province with blistering heat. Smoke and wildfires will erupt as the
very ground will burn with unnatural heat. The Hellscape will appear as an unnatural event, but those affected will not know
who has cast the curse upon them.
Heat Scale +3, Death Scale +1, Population -10%, Unrest +20.
Blood 3 Infernal Breeding B2 25 - - NUW
The Warlocks of Abysia have experimented with crossbreeding since they first discovered blood magic. Under the influence
of infernal magic Abysians, humans and giants are crossbred with demons, salamanders and other beasts. In the early days
most of the experiments were conducted on Abysians, but the wars with Hinnom made the blood of giants occasionally
available. In later times humans and humanbreds have dominated the breeding stock and abysian crossbreds are rarer. Due
to the creation process many Hell Spawn suffer from various afflictions and early aging.
National Rituals: T'ien Ch'i (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 5 Internal Alchemy W2S1 5 - - UndIm, InanimIm
The mystics and hermits of T'ien Ch'i have always been obsessed with longevity. Internal Alchemy is a method to transmute
the inner self instead of external substances. Meditation, severe asceticism and breathing techniques are used to access the
inner cinnabar fields in an attempt to alter them. Often the alchemist feeds on cinnabar, transmuted quicksilver, the most
highly regarded alchemical substance, during the process. The transformative nature of the cinnabar might also transmute
the mind of the hermit.
Age -15 years
Cnst 4 Thousand Year Ginseng N1 4 - - UndIm, InanimIm
The mystics and hermits of T'ien Ch'i have always been obsessed with longevity. During the Time of the Bureaucracy and
the prevalence of herbal medicine, one means to this end was found. The Thousand Year Ginseng will give the imbiber
longevity and good health and is the closest to immortality one can come without practicing Internal Alchemy.
Age -5 years
National Rituals: Caelum (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 7 Call of the Drugvant D4F1 15 4 - NUW, Anon
The Drugvant are the People of the Lie, those under the influence of evil intentions. With this ritual the caster lets loose the
will of the Destructive Spirit upon a remote land. Falsehood, wickedness and violence will spread in the province and in its
wake Daevas will come. Unrest is greatly increased and the province is attacked by bandits and a host of Daevas.
National Rituals: Nazca (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 2 Eyes of the Condors A2 1 4 - NUW
The Condor is sacred to the people of Nazca. It is considered a messenger of the sun and herald of storms. No other bird can
soar at such heights, thus Condor scouts are rarely seen and almost impossible to catch. With this ritual the caster borrows
the all perceiving eyes of the Condors and send the sacred birds to a distant province to scry.
Ench 5 Geoglyphs S3E2 18 - - NUW
The Coyas of Nazca, daughters of the Moon, are accomplished students of the stellar bodies and their connection with the
earth. They have discovered means to amplify the influence of the planets on the terrestrial sphere through vast geoglyphs
inscribed on the bare ground. As long as the enchantment of the geoglyph is active magic in the province is increased as are
the ranges of rituals. Enemies fighting in a province with an active geoglyph are more easily affected by magic and have their
magic resistance reduced. It is only possible to cast the ritual if you can see the land from above. Thus only flying mages can
cast the spell. For the enchantment to be effective the geoglyphs must be exposed to stellar lights, so it is only castable in
236
[[page 237]]
barren lands.
Magic scale +2, MR for enemies in province -2, ritual range +1
National Rituals: Machaka (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 5 Weavers of the Wood N4 6 - - NUW
The caster makes spiders large and small weave a giant web covering an entire forest province. Anyone trying to sneak
through the forest is highly likely to be detected as the caster monitors the webs. The caster of the ritual will be able to
direct both the local patrolling forces and spiders from the woods in order to attack any trespassers. The ritual will break if
the caster leaves the province.
Patrol strength +100 vs enemy units. Able to detect invisible beings as well. Spiders will aid patrolling forces in combat.
Duration: 1 month + 3 months per extra gems.
National Rituals: Vanarus (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Send Lady Midday A3D1 5 5 - NUW, Anon
The Lady Midday is a malign spirit of the noon. She appears as a young girl surrounded by whirling dust and armed with a
scythe that stinks of disease. Sometimes she will stop people and ask them a question. Failure to answer results in her
displeasure and she will use her scythe to disease or chop off the head of the victim. The caster of this ritual will contact the
spirit and force it to appear in a suitable province where it will attack and try to slay a commander.
National Rituals: Jotunheim (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 5 Seith Curse D1S1 3 5 - MR+, Detect, NUW, Anon
Seith is an ancient form of sorcery, reputedly invented by Angerboda. It has been practiced by females of the nation through
the ages. Gygjor, vaetti hags and human Seithkonur all have some knowledge of the Seith, but it is the Seithkonur of Utgård
that have mastered the art. Seith can be used to spell doom upon a distant target. When cast, a single enemy commander in
a faraway province is cursed for the rest of his life. However, the price is high, and the Fates will keep the balance. Someone
close to the caster will also suffer a curse.
National Rituals: Nidavangr (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 5 Seith Curse D1S1 3 5 - MR+, Detect, NUW, Anon
Seith is an ancient form of sorcery, reputedly invented by Angerboda. It has been practiced by females of the nation through
the ages. Gygjor, vaetti hags and human Seithkonur all have some knowledge of the Seith, but it is the Seithkonur of Utgård
that have mastered the art. Seith can be used to spell doom upon a distant target. When cast, a single enemy commander in
a faraway province is cursed for the rest of his life. However, the price is high, and the Fates will keep the balance. Someone
close to the caster will also suffer a curse.
National Rituals: Oceania (age 2)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 0 Grow Fortress N4 35 - -
This ritual forces nature to form a complete fortress in a matter of weeks, sturdy enough to rival stone walls. Defenders can
stand on the walls and fire missiles from the parapets. This ritual can only be cast in forests or shallow seas, where nature
has plenty of material to build from.
237
[[page 238]]
National Rituals: Arcoscephale (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 3 From Death Comes Life D1N1 3 - - NUW
The Panageis uses sacred carcasses from a Megara Chasm to complete the cycle of death and rebirth and procure fertility in
the province. The growth scale of the province is increased by two. The ritual lasts longer if more gems are used.
Conj 3 Curse Tablet D1 3 2 - MR+, Detect, Anon
With the emergent interest in the fate of souls in Arcoscephale, necromantic practices have emerged. While most Orphic
Mystics try to find the mysteries of a blessed afterlife, some less scrupulous individuals have used the new insights to
command the newly dead. With this ritual the necromancer approaches the grave of a newly dead and places a tablet on it.
The soul of the dead one is prevented from transmigrating or finding rest until it has performed the curse on the tablet. The
spirit will travel to a distant province and curse a commander before finding final rest.
Conj 5 Monster Boar N3 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster summons a monster boar and sends it to a distant province to ravage the land. The boar is a descendant of the
monster boars sent by the Lady of the Hunt to ravage the farmlands of obnoxious peasants. The boar will cause unrest in the
province until it is found and slain.
National Rituals: Pangaea (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Monster Boar N3 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster summons a monster boar and sends it to a distant province to ravage the land. The boar is a descendant of the
monster boars sent by the Lady of the Hunt to ravage the farmlands of obnoxious peasants. The boar will cause unrest in the
province until it is found and slain.
Alt 5 Fort of the Ancients N4 35 - -
In ancient times, Pangaea made its forts not from mud and mortar but bramble and birch. This ritual forces nature to form a
complete fortress in a matter of weeks, sturdy enough to rival stone walls. The ritual can only be cast in forests or shallow
seas, where an appropriate amount of vegetation can be found.
National Rituals: Pythium (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 3 Katabasis D1W1 8 - - UndIm, InanimIm, NUW
A mystic of the Sacred River of Death and Rebirth descends into the underworld through the Sacred River and prepares a
path for an eventual return from the underworld. If the Renatus or Renata is slain, he or she returns from the underworld to
the province where the ritual was cast. They will be soaked in stygian waters and possibly gaining dark insights in the
process. For the ritual to work, the province it was cast in must be in friendly hands when the mystic dies.
Ench 3 Epopteia N1 12 - - NUW
Mystics of the Great Mother gather in the spring and perform the Epopteia, Greater Mystery, in order to bless the land with
one year of fertility. The Greater Mystery is a ceremony of a foreign faith and will reduce belief in the True God.
Growth +2. Duration: until next spring. Dominion is reduced by 3 when the ritual is cast.
Thau 3 Taurobolium N1F1 6 - - NUW
The Heliodromus performs a ritual slaying of a sacred bull. The Heliodromus takes his place in a trench underneath a plate
of copper pierced with holes. The sacred bull is slain by the participants and its blood pour down upon the Heliodromus.
Baptized in blood the Heliodromus is purified and endowed with the power of the Solar Bull. For one year the reborn
Heliodromus is worshiped by his fellows as an incarnate God. The Heliodromus receives increased magical understanding
and false prophet status. There can only be one elevated Heliodromus.
Grants fire magic bonus +2, nature magic bonus +1, heretic +3. Duration: 1 year.
238
[[page 239]]
National Rituals: Marignon (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 4 Mirror Walk G1S1 1 7 -
With the help of two large flawless and perfectly aligned mirrors, the mirror mage can step into one mirror and then exit
through the other regardless of the distance between. The mirror mages make sure that all laboratories are setup with this
perfect mirror in order to make it possible for the mages to easily travel between the labs. The mirror walk ritual takes some
time to perform, but it consumes very few magic resources.
National Rituals: Abysia (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 6 Hellscape F4 10 5 - NUW, Anon
The caster calls on the fires of Rhuax to curse a distant province with blistering heat. Smoke and wildfires will erupt as the
very ground will burn with unnatural heat. The Hellscape will appear as an unnatural event, but those affected will not know
who has cast the curse upon them.
Heat Scale +3, Death Scale +1, Population -10%, Unrest +20.
Blood 3 Infernal Breeding B2 25 - - NUW
The Warlocks of Abysia have experimented with crossbreeding since they first discovered blood magic. Under the influence
of infernal magic Abysians, humans and giants are crossbred with demons, salamanders and other beasts. In the early days
most of the experiments were conducted on Abysians, but the wars with Hinnom made the blood of giants occasionally
available. In later times humans and humanbreds have dominated the breeding stock and abysian crossbreds are rarer. Due
to the creation process many Hell Spawn suffer from various afflictions and early aging.
National Rituals: Ragha (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 7 Call of the Drugvant D4F1 15 4 - NUW, Anon
The Drugvant are the People of the Lie, those under the influence of evil intentions. With this ritual the caster lets loose the
will of the Destructive Spirit upon a remote land. Falsehood, wickedness and violence will spread in the province and in its
wake Daevas will come. Unrest is greatly increased and the province is attacked by bandits and a host of Daevas.
National Rituals: Caelum (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 7 Call of the Drugvant D4F1 15 4 - NUW, Anon
The Drugvant are the People of the Lie, those under the influence of evil intentions. With this ritual the caster lets loose the
will of the Destructive Spirit upon a remote land. Falsehood, wickedness and violence will spread in the province and in its
wake Daevas will come. Unrest is greatly increased and the province is attacked by bandits and a host of Daevas.
National Rituals: T'ien Ch'i (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Alt 5 Internal Alchemy W2S1 5 - - UndIm, InanimIm
The mystics and hermits of T'ien Ch'i have always been obsessed with longevity. Internal Alchemy is a method to transmute
the inner self instead of external substances. Meditation, severe asceticism and breathing techniques are used to access the
inner cinnabar fields in an attempt to alter them. Often the alchemist feeds on cinnabar, transmuted quicksilver, the most
highly regarded alchemical substance, during the process. The transformative nature of the cinnabar might also transmute
the mind of the hermit.
Age -15 years
239
[[page 240]]
National Rituals: Bogarus (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Conj 5 Send Lady Midday A3D1 5 5 - NUW, Anon
The Lady Midday is a malign spirit of the noon. She appears as a young girl surrounded by whirling dust and armed with a
scythe that stinks of disease. Sometimes she will stop people and ask them a question. Failure to answer results in her
displeasure and she will use her scythe to disease or chop off the head of the victim. The caster of this ritual will contact the
spirit and force it to appear in a suitable province where it will attack and try to slay a commander.
National Rituals: Utgård (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 5 Seith Curse D1S1 3 5 - MR+, Detect, NUW, Anon
Seith is an ancient form of sorcery, reputedly invented by Angerboda. It has been practiced by females of the nation through
the ages. Gygjor, vaetti hags and human Seithkonur all have some knowledge of the Seith, but it is the Seithkonur of Utgård
that have mastered the art. Seith can be used to spell doom upon a distant target. When cast, a single enemy commander in
a faraway province is cursed for the rest of his life. However, the price is high, and the Fates will keep the balance. Someone
close to the caster will also suffer a curse.
National Rituals: Vaettiheim (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 5 Seith Curse D1S1 3 5 - MR+, Detect, NUW, Anon
Seith is an ancient form of sorcery, reputedly invented by Angerboda. It has been practiced by females of the nation through
the ages. Gygjor, vaetti hags and human Seithkonur all have some knowledge of the Seith, but it is the Seithkonur of Utgård
that have mastered the art. Seith can be used to spell doom upon a distant target. When cast, a single enemy commander in
a faraway province is cursed for the rest of his life. However, the price is high, and the Fates will keep the balance. Someone
close to the caster will also suffer a curse.
National Rituals: Atlantis (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Ench 5 Send Tupilak D3W1 5 5 - NUW, Anon
The Tupilak is an artificial animal made from various animal cadavers. It is able to take the appearance and attributes of any
of its composite parts. Most Tupilaks are made from bears, ravens, seals and reindeer. This gives the Tupilak battle prowess
and the ability of flight. After it has been created, it is given the task of hunting down and killing a specific enemy
commander. Then the Tupilak will fly, run and swim across the world in order to find its prey and kill it.
National Rituals: R'lyeh (age 3)
School Ritual Name Path Cost Rng Dmg Special
Thau 6 Dreams of R'lyeh S3G1 4 10 - MR, Detect
This spell can target the dreams of an enemy commander anywhere in the world. It will pull his dream through the Void Gate
in R'lyeh and into the other world. Here the caster will manifest himself in the dream and kill the bewildered target. The
spell does not work on mindless beings or those who never sleep.
240
[[page 241]]
Nation Index
Early Ages
Arcoscephale, Golden Era page 243
Mekone, Brazen Giants page 245
Pangaea, Age of Revelry page 246
Ermor, New Faith page 248
Sauromatia, Amazon Queens page 250
Fomoria, The Cursed Ones page 252
Tir na n'Og, Land of the Ever Young page 254
Marverni, Time of Druids page 256
Ulm, Enigma of Steel page 258
Pyrène, Kingdom of the Bekrydes page 259
Agartha, Pale Ones page 261
Abysia, Children of Flame page 263
Hinnom, Sons of the Fallen page 265
Ubar, Kingdom of the Unseen page 267
Ur, The First City page 269
Kailasa, Rise of the Ape Kings page 271
Lanka, Land of Demons page 272
T'ien Ch'i, Spring and Autumn page 274
Yomi, Oni Kings page 276
Caelum, Eagle Kings page 277
Mictlan, Reign of Blood page 279
Xibalba, Vigil of the Sun page 280
C'tis, Lizard Kings page 282
Machaka, Lion Kings page 284
Berytos, The Phoenix Empire page 286
Vanheim, Age of Vanir page 288
Helheim, Dusk and Death page 289
Rus, Sons of Heaven page 291
Niefelheim, Sons of Winter page 293
Muspelheim, Sons of Fire page 294
Pelagia, Pearl Kings page 296
Oceania, Coming of the Capricorns page 298
Therodos, Telkhine Spectre page 299
Atlantis, Emergence of the Deep Ones page 300
R'lyeh, Time of Aboleths page 301
Middle Ages
Arcoscephale, The Old Kingdom page 303
Phlegra, Deformed Giants page 305
Pangaea, Age of Bronze page 306
Asphodel, Carrion Woods page 308
Ermor, Ashen Empire page 310
Sceleria, The Reformed Empire page 311
Pythium, Emerald Empire page 313
Man, Tower of Avalon page 315
Eriu, Last of the Tuatha page 317
Agartha, Golem Cult page 319
Ulm, Forges of Ulm page 321
Marignon, Fiery Justice page 323
Pyrène, Time of the Akelarre page 325
Abysia, Blood and Fire page 327
Ashdod, Reign of the Anakim page 329
Na'Ba, Queens of the Desert page 331
Uruk, City States page 333
Ind, Magnificent Kingdom of Exalted Virtue page 335
Bandar Log, Land of the Apes page 336
T'ien Ch'i, Imperial Bureaucracy page 338
Shinuyama, Land of the Bakemono page 340
Caelum, Reign of the Seraphim page 342
Nazca, Kingdom of the Sun page 344
Mictlan, Reign of the Lawgiver page 346
Xibalba, Flooded Caves page 348
C'tis, Miasma page 350
Machaka, Reign of Sorcerors page 352
Phaeacia, Isle of the Dark Ships page 354
Vanheim, Arrival of Man page 356
Vanarus, Land of the Chuds page 357
Jotunheim, Iron Woods page 359
Nidavangr, Bear, Wolf and Crow page 361
Ys, Morgen Queens page 363
Pelagia, Triton Kings page 365
Oceania, Mermidons page 367
Atlantis, Kings of the Deep page 369
R'lyeh, Fallen Star page 371
241
[[page 242]]
Late Ages
Arcoscephale, Sibylline Guidance page 373
Phlegra, Sleeping Giants page 375
Pangaea, New Era page 377
Pythium, Serpent Cult page 378
Lemuria, Soul Gates page 380
Man, Towers of Chelms page 381
Ulm, Black Forest page 383
Agartha, Ktonian Dead page 385
Marignon, Conquerors of the Sea page 387
Abysia, Blood of Humans page 389
Ragha, Dual Kingdom page 391
Caelum, Return of the Raptors page 393
Gath, Last of the Giants page 395
Patala, Reign of the Nagas page 397
T'ien Ch'i, Barbarian Kings page 399
Jomon, Human Daimyos page 401
Mictlan, Blood and Rain page 403
Xibalba, Return of the Zotz page 405
C'tis, Desert Tombs page 407
Midgård, Age of Men page 409
Bogarus, Age of Heroes page 410
Utgård, Well of Urd page 412
Vaettiheim, Wolf Kin Jarldom page 414
Feminie, Sage-Queens page 416
Piconye, Legacy of the Prester King page 418
Andramania, Dog Republic page 420
Pyrène, Cambion Kings page 422
Erytheia, Kingdom of Two Worlds page 424
Atlantis, Frozen Sea page 426
R'lyeh, Dreamlands page 428
242
[[page 243]]
Arcoscephale, Golden Era
The kingdom of Arcoscephale is yet to be founded and in its place is a loose collection of city states. Bronze is more
common than iron and hoplites have yet to see the light of day. Instead, myrmidons and chariots compose the core of the
armies. In this time, slaves are commonly used and most free men have plenty of time to spend on fine arts and good living.
Philosophers gather in the cities to discuss esoteric truths and engineers manufacture clever contraptions for civil or military use. At the
heart of Arcoscephale lies Mount Cephalos, abode of the Awakening God. At the foot of the mountain is a great temple where sacred
Pegasus Riders are trained. Icarids, men with mechanical wings, are also used in warfare. The philosophers are better at magical research
in a slothful Dominion.
Race: Humans
Military: Heavy infantry, chariots, flying infantry, sacred Pegasus Riders, engineers
Magic: Nature, Astral, Elements. Philosopher researchers
Priests: Weak, healing. Sceptic preachers (reduces Dominion)
Dominion: Scry (accurate and automatic military reports inside dominion)
Buildings: Standard Forts (Engineers can build better forts), labs cost 300
Arcoscephale, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Short Bow
Engineer Gold 55, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Siege Strength +25, Mason, Ldr 10, Wpn: Tool
Sceptic Gold 70, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, Stealth 40, Heretic 3, Ldr 10, Wpn: Bronze
Dagger
Icarid Champion Gold 70, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 14, Fly, FR -5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Charioteer Commander Gold 75, Res 20, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Mount:
Chariot
Myrmidon Champion Gold 95, Res 29, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 12, Ldr 100, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Mystic Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Research +1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: S1?2,
Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Melissa Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Healing 3, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
N1H1?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Philosopher Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Ldr 10, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Wind Lord Gold 205, Res 27, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 22, MM 24, Sacr, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Bronze Lance, Mount: Armored Pegasus
Mage Engineer Gold 175, Res 3, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Siege Strength +30, Mason, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40,
Mag: A1E1?1, Wpn: Tool
Oreiad Gold 555, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, MS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 60, Awe +6,
Seduction , Ldr 10, MagLdr 70, Mag: A2E1N3?1, Wpn: Fist
243
[[page 244]]
Arcoscephale, recruitable units
Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Cardaces Gold 10, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Peltast Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Icarid Gold 14, Res 21, Rec 18
HP 12, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 14, Fly, FR -5, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Myrmidon Gold 15, Res 29, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 12, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Charioteer Gold 30, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Mount: Chariot
Charioteer Gold 40, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Mount: Chariot, Corider: Chariot
Archer
Wind Rider Gold 70, Res 27, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 22, MM 24, Sacr, Rider 2, Wpn: Bronze Lance, Mount: Armored
Pegasus
Arcoscephale, mount stats
Armored Pegasus
HP 25, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 29, MM 26, Fly, Sacr, Smart 100, Wpn: Hoof
Chariot
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 20, MM 20, Trample, Wpn: Hoof
244
[[page 245]]
Mekone, Brazen Giants
Mekone is a city of gold and marble inhabited by Gigantes, a race of exalted giants descended from an ancient god. Proud and
endowed with mythical strength the Gigantes of Mekone have enslaved their neighbors and made themselves rulers over men. For
ages the Gigantes have watched the lesser races and seen their kingdoms rise and fall. They witnessed the fall of Telkhinis and the
injustices done to the races of old. With the aid of the Elder Cyclopes the Gigantes of Mekone have taken it upon themselves to rid the world of the
gods of men. Most of Mekone's population consists of human slaves, helotes. The population of human slaves is discontent and unrest will increase in
all forts.
Military: Few Gigantes armed with magical weapons. Mostly human slave soldiers. No sacred troops
Magic: Fire, Earth, Air and some Water. Cyclops smiths
Priests: weak and few, inquisitors
Dominion: Conflict bonus +1 (good at suppressing enemy dominion)
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Advanced Fortified Cities, forts increase unrest
Mekone, recruitable commanders
Perioeci Scout Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Short Bow
Neodamode Commander Gold 60, Res 30, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 14, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Lochos Gold 115, Res 75, Rec 1
HP 32, Prot 21, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 14, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 14, TM +2, Ldr 100, Wpn: Golden Spear
Geronte Gold 145, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 33, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 22, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 18, Sacr, TM +1, Inquisitor, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag:
H1?1, Wpn: Fist
Ephor Gold 235, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 33, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 22, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 16, Sacr, TM +1, Inquisitor, Ldr 60, MagLdr 30, Mag:
F1E1H1?1, Wpn: Fist
Archon Gold 430, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 33, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 18, Sacr, TM +1, Inquisitor, Ldr 80, MagLdr 40, Mag:
F1E1H1?2, Wpn: Fist
Polemarch Gold 415, Res 79, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 35, Prot 21, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 22, Att 14, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, TM +2, Ldr 170, MagLdr 40, Mag: F2E2, Wpn:
God-Slayer Spear
Elder Cyclops Gold 465, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 63, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 26, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, MS, Master Smith 1, FR +15, Resource Bonus 25, Ldr 70,
MagLdr 60, Mag: F2A1E2?1, Wpn: Maul
Basileus Gold 485, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 33, Prot 7, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 22, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 16, Sacr, TM +2, Inquisitor, Ldr 120, MagLdr 60, Mag:
F2W1E2H2?1, Wpn: Fist
Mekone, recruitable units
Helote Peltast Gold 8, Res 5, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Promotion, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Helote Ekdromos Gold 8, Res 15, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Promotion, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Helote Hoplite Gold 8, Res 29, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 12, Promotion, Wpn: Bronze Long Spear
Perioeci Peltast Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Discobolus Gold 30, Res 7, Rec 19 (max 3/month)
HP 32, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 21, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 20, Wpn: Fist, Fist, Bronze Discus
Gigante Ekdromos Gold 40, Res 51, Rec 25 (max 3/month)
HP 30, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 20, Wpn: Golden Spear
Gigante Hoplite Gold 40, Res 75, Rec 25 (max 3/month)
HP 30, Prot 21, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Golden Spear
245
[[page 246]]
Pangaea, Age of Revelry
Pangaea is a woodland nation inhabited by wild beings connected with nature. Halfmen such as satyrs, centaurs and
minotaurs serve the lords of the Sacred Groves deep in the forests. The expansion of the civilized nations has forced the
beasts of Pangaea to arm themselves with man-made weapons. Minotaurs wield huge battleaxes and centaurs are trained
to use spears and longbows. The magic of the Panii lures women into the forests where they turn wild and shed all their clothing. These
women are called Maenads and are turned loose to fight humans with their bare hands and teeth.
Race: Forest beings, stealthy troops, troops will heal battle afflictions
Military: Satyr and minotaur infantry, centaur archers and warriors
Magic: Magical Tunes, Nature, Earth, Glamour, Blood, some Water. Can conjure Bramble Forts.
Priests: Average, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Growth limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts (50% more expensive), temples cost 300 in forests, labs cost 300 in forests
Pangaea, recruitable commanders
Black Harpy Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 60, Ldr 10, Wpn: Talons,
Talons
Satyr Commander Gold 60, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Bronze Spear
Minotaur Lord Gold 95, Res 7, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 29, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +5, Ldr 75,
Wpn: Bronze Battleaxe
Centaur Hierophant Gold 170, Res 4, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 30, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40,
Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze Dagger, Long Bow
Centauride Hierophantide Gold 170, Res 3, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 32, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40,
Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze Dagger, Short Bow
Dryad Gold 260, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 65, Awe +4,
Seduction , Ldr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: N1G1H2, Wpn: Hoof
Dryad Mother Gold 425, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 65, Awaken
Vine Men Bonus 1, Awe +5, Seduction , Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: N2G1H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Hoof
Pan Gold 455, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 27, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Animal Awe +3, Ldr
100, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 70, Mag: E1N4B1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Pangaea, recruitable units
Harpy Gold 7, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Talons, Talons
Satyr Sneak Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 60, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Satyr Gold 9, Res 4, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Javelin
Satyr Warrior Gold 13, Res 5, Rec 21
HP 14, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 18, FS, Recup, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Reveler Gold 16, Res 3, Rec 14
HP 15, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +3, Wpn:
Bronze Spear, Hoof
246
[[page 247]]
Centaur Gold 25, Res 4, Rec 12 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 30, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze
Dagger, Long Bow
Centauride Gold 25, Res 3, Rec 12 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 32, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze
Dagger, Short Bow
Centauride Warrior Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17
HP 18, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 31, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Hoof, Javelin
Centaur Warrior Gold 35, Res 11, Rec 21
HP 22, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 29, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +3, Wpn:
Bronze Lance, Hoof
Minotaur Gold 40, Res 6, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 25, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +4, Wpn: Bronze
Battleaxe
Minotaur Warrior Gold 50, Res 7, Rec 18
HP 27, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +5, Wpn: Bronze
Battleaxe
White Centaur Gold 55, Res 12, Rec 29 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 29, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +3,
Wpn: Bronze Lance, Hoof, Javelin
247
[[page 248]]
Ermor, New Faith
Ermor is an empire centered around a great city. For centuries it has grown and become more and more influential.
Traders and travelers from near and far come to the city. By military campaigns, diplomacy and trade, Ermor has become a
power to be reckoned with. By adopting local traditions and beliefs, the Ermorians posed little threat to neighbors and
conquered peoples, but this has begun to change. A new God is rising. Old syncretistic faiths and spirit worship were banned by a Prophet
dressed in white shrouds. The remnants of his body and shrouds are buried in the Holy City of Eldregate where the adherents of the New
Faith are awaiting the arrival of the Reawakening God foreseen by the Prophet. The all-encompassing old state cult of the Numinas still
survives, but the Pontifices and Flamen are slowly adopting the New Faith.
Race: Human.
Military: Human legionnaires and lizard auxiliaries.
Magic: Fire, Death, Astral, some Water, Earth, Air and Nature.
Priests: Powerful, can heal afflictions.
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Advanced Forts, starts with a Fortified City
Ermor, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn:
Dagger, Short Bow
Assassin Gold 80, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 65, Ambidex 2,
Assassin, Patience +1, Wpn: Short Sword, Poison Dagger
Centurion Gold 95, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Ldr 100, Wpn: Short Sword
Legatus Legionis Gold 150, Res 21, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Ldr 150, Wpn: Short Sword
Acolyte Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Dagger
Bishop of the Sacred Shroud Gold 155, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Recup, Healing 1, Ldr 10,
Mag: H2, Wpn: Dagger
Augur Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 20,
MagLdr 30, Mag: F1S1, Wpn: Sceptre
Augur Elder Gold 295, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 9, Def 5, Prec 13, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 40, UndLdr
150, MagLdr 50, Mag: F2S1D2?1, Wpn: Sceptre
Praefectus Equitum Gold 195, Res 18, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, Sacr, Recup, Rider 2, Ldr 100,
Mag: H1, Wpn: Light Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: War Horse
Arch Bishop of the Sacred Shroud Gold 235, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Recup, Healing 1, Ldr 10,
Mag: H3, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Flamen Gold 185, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, MagLdr 20, Mag: F1H1?1,
Wpn: Dagger
Pontifex Gold 145, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 60, MagLdr 10, Mag:
F1H2, Wpn: Fist
248
[[page 249]]
Ermor, recruitable units
Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Accensus Gold 8, Res 9, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Retiarius Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Net, Trident
Gladiator Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Flail
Leve Gold 10, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 20, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Rorarus Gold 10, Res 13, Rec 8
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 20, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Lizard Auxiliare Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Hastatus Gold 11, Res 14, Rec 12
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 20, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Principe Gold 14, Res 16, Rec 20
HP 11, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Triarius Gold 15, Res 28, Rec 25
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 10, CS 5, MM 14, Wpn: Long Spear
Standard Gold 20, Res 14, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 20, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Equite Gold 40, Res 18, Rec 31
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Light Lance, Broad Sword,
Mount: War Horse
Equite of the Sacred Shroud Gold 60, Res 18, Rec 33 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Sacr, Recup, Rider 1, Wpn: Light
Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: War Horse
Ermor, mount stats
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 23, MM 20, Wpn: Hoof
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 6, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 23, MM 20, Sacr, Recup, Wpn: Hoof
249
[[page 250]]
Sauromatia, Amazon Queens
Sauromatia is a nation of nomadic warrior tribes ruled by women. Men and women fight side by side and all prominent
tribes are ruled by warrior queens. This is a legacy of the Sauromatians merging with the Amazon tribes in times past. The
Amazons leaders were not accepted, because they were not warriors, but they influenced the Sauromatians and women
warriors gained power and prestige. Only the tribe of the Androphags has totally rejected the notion of female leadership. The
Androphags are ruled by ancient Witch Kings who introduced cannibalism and man-flaying to the Sauromatians. The Androphags also use
hydras from the Marshes of Pythia in warfare.
Military: Light and medium cavalry, serpent riders, lizard riders, hydras
Magic: Death, Nature, Blood, some Astral and Water
Priests: Weak, can perform blood sacrifices
Buildings: Standard Forts
Sauromatia, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short
Bow
Soothsayer Gold 75, Res 4, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
, Wpn: Dagger
Chieftain Gold 85, Res 9, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Inspirational +1, Pillage +3, Rider 3, Ldr
50, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Sauromatian Manflayer Gold 130, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Inspirational +1, Pillage +5, Rider 2, Ldr
100, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Cataphracted Steppe Horse
Warrior Queen Gold 240, Res 20, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 19, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, Pillage +10, Rider 4, Ldr 150, Wpn:
Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Cataphracted Steppe Horse
Warrior Priestess Gold 185, Res 20, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 19, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, Pillage +5, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Mag:
H1, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Cataphracted Steppe Horse
Spirit Guide Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, Mag: D1, Wpn: Dagger
Enarie Gold 205, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, SpSi, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100,
MagLdr 30, Mag: S1D2N1, Wpn: Dagger
Warrior Sorceress Gold 260, Res 16, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 13, Def 19, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, Rider 3, Ldr 100, UndLdr 50,
MagLdr 10, Mag: N1H1?1, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: Armored Jade Lizard
Hydra Tamer Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 4, MR 10, Mor 16, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, SS, PR +15, Ldr 10, Wpn: Net, Trident
Manflayer Gold 190, Res 14, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Inspirational +1, Rider 3, Ldr
100, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: Serpent
Witch King Gold 525, Res 13, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 12, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 14, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 12, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Fear +5, Rider 2, Ldr
150, UndLdr 160, MagLdr 30, Mag: D3N1B1?1, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: Serpent
250
[[page 251]]
Sauromatia, recruitable units
Sauromatian Archer Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 4, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Composite Bow
Androphag Archer Gold 12, Res 6, Rec 20 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 4, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Poison Bow
Sauromatian Amazon Gold 12, Res 12, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Raider Gold 20, Res 12, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 11, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Pillage +1, Rider 2, Wpn: Spear,
Composite Bow, Mount: Steppe Horse
Lancer Gold 25, Res 9, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 11, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount:
Armored Steppe Horse
Sauromatian Raider Gold 25, Res 18, Rec 21
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 12, Pillage +1, Rider 2, Wpn: Spear,
Composite Bow, Mount: Steppe Horse
Sauromatian Lancer Gold 30, Res 18, Rec 21
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance, Composite
Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Sauromatian Cataphract Gold 35, Res 20, Rec 31
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword,
Mount: Cataphracted Steppe Horse
Hydra Hatchling Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 15 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 25, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, SS, Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR
+25, Wpn: Lesser Heads, Great Head
Hydra Gold 200, Res 1, Rec 50 (max 1/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 80, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, SS, Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR
+25, Fear +5, Wpn: Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Great Head
Oiorpata Gold 50, Res 16, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, Rider 3, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount:
Armored Jade Lizard
Androphag Gold 55, Res 14, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance,
Mount: Serpent
Sauromatia, mount stats
Armored Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 24, Wpn: Hoof
Steppe Horse
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 7, Str 13, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 26, Wpn: Hoof
Cataphracted Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
Cataphracted Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 6, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 22, Sacr, Wpn: Hoof
Serpent
HP 28, Prot 8, MR 6, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 20, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Smart 75, Wpn:
Poisonous Bite
Armored Jade Lizard
HP 23, Prot 14, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 4, Enc 5, CS 21, MM 18, FS, Sacr, PR +5, Wpn: Bite
251
[[page 252]]
Fomoria, The Cursed Ones
The bountiful land of Fomoria was claimed by giants who once guarded the dark and stormy ocean realm of the drowned
dead. With death ever near, their loyalties had changed and their malice grown. With the ascendancy of a previous
Pantokrator, they were punished for their sins and banished from their dark home. The full effects of the Curse became
evident when the Fomorians settled in a fertile land. Their offspring were short and cursed with monstrous appearance. The few surviving
Fomorian giants saw their once proud race degenerate and die. Then came the Invasions. Partholonians, Nemedians, Fir Bolg and Tuatha
all claimed the land of Fomoria. Twice the Fomorians were all but defeated by foreign magic, but twice they conjured a plague that slew
the invaders. The third wave of invaders, the Fir Bolg, accepted Fomorian rule and aided the giants in defeating the Tuatha. Now Fir Bolg
compose much of the Fomorian population. Fomorians are skilled shipwrights, powerful storm crafters and have a legacy of mastery over
the dead.
Race: Malformed Fomorian giants, Fir Bolg, remnant Nemedians. Ocean sailing and units able to enter the sea.
Military: Fir Bolg infantry, Fomorian infantry, Nemedian infantry
Magic: Air, Glamour, Death, some Water and Nature
Priests: Mostly weak, Fomorian King of average skill
Buildings: Giant Forts
Fomoria, recruitable commanders
Fir Bolg Scout Gold 35, Res 12, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Bronze Sword,
Javelin
Fomorian Scout Gold 60, Res 19, Rec 1
HP 33, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Javelin
Fir Bolg Champion Gold 60, Res 12, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Javelin
Fomorian Champion Gold 80, Res 29, Rec 1
HP 35, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 22, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Unmarked Champion Gold 180, Res 29, Rec 1
HP 38, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 22, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Bronze
Spear, Javelin
Fir Bolg Druid Gold 95, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Fomorian Druid Gold 285, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 32, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag:
A2H1?1, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Nemedian Champion Gold 245, Res 25, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 16, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Ldr 100, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: D1G1H1, Wpn: Golden Sword, Javelin
Nemedian Sorceress Gold 370, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, Glamour, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell Singer, Ldr
10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: A1D2G2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Fomorian King Gold 675, Res 37, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 70, Prot 15, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 25, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 18, Sacr, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Army Sail, Ship
Size 10, Gift of Water Breathing 250 size points, Ldr 150, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 30, Mag: A3D2H2?1, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
252
[[page 253]]
Fomoria, recruitable units
Fir Bolg Militia Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 11
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Fir Bolg Slinger Gold 11, Res 2, Rec 12
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Dagger, Sling
Fir Bolg Warrior Gold 13, Res 10, Rec 15
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Axe
Fir Bolg Warrior Gold 13, Res 10, Rec 15
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Fomorian Militia Gold 15, Res 3, Rec 7
HP 30, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 18, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Fomorian Javelinist Gold 20, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 30, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 20, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Fomorian Spearman Gold 20, Res 17, Rec 11
HP 30, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 20, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Fomorian Warrior Gold 30, Res 27, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Nemedian Warrior Gold 35, Res 22, Rec 24 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 15, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Glamour, Stealth 65, DV 50, Wpn: Golden
Spear, Javelin
Unmarked Gold 55, Res 27, Rec 28 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 35, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Fomorian Giant Gold 75, Res 37, Rec 37 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 64, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 18, Sacr, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze
Spear, Javelin
253
[[page 254]]
Tir na n'Og, Land of the Ever Young
Tir na n'Og is a blessed isle surrounded by whispering mists. It is the home of the Tuatha, a highly magical race descended
from the Nemedians who once warred with the Fomorians. The Tuatha have made themselves lords and masters over the
Fir Bolg, a lesser race descended from the same Nemedian ancestors. With the aid of the Fir Bolg, the Tuatha attacked the
Fomorian giants and almost succeeded where the Nemedians failed, but eventually the Fomorians proved too powerful and the Tuatha
were driven back to their Blessed Isle. The Tuatha and their Sidhe descendants have turned to crafts, poetry and magical arts, but some
have chosen the path of war and have become warriors and generals of great renown. The Fir Bolg, inferior to the Tuatha but still far
superior to ordinary men, compose much of the population and serve as farmers and lowly warriors.
Race: Tuatha, Sidhe, Fir Bolg, illusions
Military: Fir Bolg infantry, Sidhe infantry, sacred Tuatha warriors
Magic: Glamour, Nature, Water, some Air and Earth
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Luck limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Tir na n'Og, recruitable commanders
Fir Bolg Scout Gold 35, Res 12, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Javelin
Fir Bolg Champion Gold 60, Res 12, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Javelin
Baobhan Sidhe Gold 200, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, Glamour, Stealth 85, DV 50, Assassin,
Patience +1, Spell Singer, MagLdr 20, Mag: G2, Wpn: Life Drain
Fir Bolg Druid Gold 95, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Sidhe Champion Gold 225, Res 19, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 10, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Ldr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag: N1G1H1, Wpn: Golden Sword, Javelin
Bean Sidhe Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: W1N1G1?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Sidhe Lord Gold 375, Res 16, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 15, Def 20, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Rider 4, Ldr 100, MagLdr 30, Mag: N1G2H2, Wpn: Golden Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Ri Gold 530, Res 22, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 15, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Rider 5, Ldr 150, MagLdr 50, Mag: N2G2H2?1, Wpn: Golden Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Tuatha Sorceress Gold 615, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: N2G4H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
254
[[page 255]]
Tir na n'Og, recruitable units
Fir Bolg Militia Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 11
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Fir Bolg Slinger Gold 11, Res 2, Rec 12
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Dagger, Sling
Fir Bolg Warrior Gold 13, Res 10, Rec 15
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Axe
Fir Bolg Warrior Gold 13, Res 10, Rec 15
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Sidhe Warrior Gold 25, Res 12, Rec 18
HP 13, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Stealth 65, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze
Spear, Javelin
Tuatha Warrior Gold 40, Res 22, Rec 22 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Wpn:
Golden Spear, Javelin
Tir na n'Og, mount stats
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn:
Hoof
255
[[page 256]]
Marverni, Time of Druids
Marverni is a nation of tribal chiefdoms guided by Druids and religious magistrates. The tribes have a long history of war
and infighting, but recent developments have joined the tribes in pursuit of a single goal. The most prominent tribes are
the Marverni, the Ambibates, the Eponi and the Carnutes. The Sequani, though a small tribe, are influential due to the large
number of Druids among them. The smiths of the Marverni tribe are reputedly the inventors of chainmail and most nobles of the tribes use
it. Lowborn warriors fight bare-chested. Both wear tattoos with dormant magical powers. The Ambibates are known for their martial
skills. The Eponi nobles fight on horseback and are the only cavalry available to the nation. The Carnute tribe guards the Sacred Forest of
Carnutes where the Druids gather every year. The Carnute warriors are able to go berserk when wounded. Boars are a sacred symbol to
the Marverni nation.
Race: Humans.
Military: Light and medium infantry, medium cavalry.
Magic: Earth, Astral, Nature, Water
Priests: Medium, can perform blood sacrifices
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 300
Marverni, recruitable commanders
Marverni Scout Gold 35, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Spear
Marverni Chieftain Gold 70, Res 17, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Inspirational +1, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Ambibate Chieftain Gold 75, Res 17, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Inspirational +1, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Carnute Chieftain Gold 80, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Inspirational +1, Berserker +3, Ldr 75,
Wpn: Axe
Eponi Chieftain Gold 135, Res 18, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Inspirational +1, Rider 2, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Broad Sword, Javelin, Mount: War Horse
Vergobret Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 90, Mag: H1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Sequani Stargazer Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: S1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Gutuater Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: N1H1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Druid Gold 240, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: E1S1H1?1, Wpn:
Twig
Boar Lord Gold 125, Res 15, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Inspirational +1, Berserker +5, Ldr
75, Wpn: Axe
Elder Druid Gold 480, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Sacr, Ldr 50, MagLdr 90, Mag: E2S2H2?2, Wpn:
Sickle
256
[[page 257]]
Marverni, recruitable units
Marverni Slinger Gold 8, Res 3, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Marverni Javelineer Gold 8, Res 5, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Marverni Bare Chested Warrior Gold 8, Res 9, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Ambibate Bare Chested Warrior Gold 10, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Broad Sword
Marverni Noble Warrior Gold 11, Res 17, Rec 12
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword
Carnute Bare Chested Warrior Gold 11, Res 6, Rec 12
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Berserker +2, Wpn: Axe
Ambibate Noble Warrior Gold 14, Res 17, Rec 18
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword
Carnute Noble Warrior Gold 15, Res 15, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Berserker +3, Wpn: Axe
Marverni Horn Blower Gold 20, Res 5, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger
Eponi Knight Gold 30, Res 18, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Rider 1, Wpn: Broad Sword,
Javelin, Mount: War Horse
Boar Warrior Gold 22, Res 15, Rec 25 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Berserker +4, Wpn:
Axe
Marverni, mount stats
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
257
[[page 258]]
Ulm, Enigma of Steel
Ulm is a land of cold mountains and dense forests. These wild lands were settled by proud and fierce barbarians in ages past. Their
ancestry has made the inhabitants of the forests stronger and more resilient to the cold climate than ordinary men. Upon
becoming men, youngsters are given a single knife and left in the forest at first snowfall. Those who survive the winter are allowed
to return to their family. The barbarians of Ulm live in small settlements ruled by chieftains and warrior-smiths who search for the Enigma of Steel.
Steel is a sacred metal and its maker is as well. Smithing has become the equivalent of making a sacrifice to the Lord and no other culture has
developed such skill in forging magical items. Horses are rare and those who use them in warfare are held in contempt. Sneak attacks, on the other
hand, are common, and many warriors use stealth to engage opponents in hand-to-hand combat.
Race: Barbarians, partial cold resistance, prefers Cold scale +1.
Military: Strong medium infantry, stealthy infantry
Magic: Earth, Nature, Fire, Air, Water, some Death, superior magic item forging
Priests: Weak
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, forts produce 25% more resources
Ulm, recruitable commanders
Warrior Scout Gold 35, Res 10, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all highlands, mountains and forests)
HP 13, Prot 8, MR 8, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword,
Axe, Short Bow
Warrior Chief Gold 105, Res 17, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all highlands, mountains and forests)
HP 16, Prot 13, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Great Sword
Shaman Gold 180, Res 5, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands, mountains and forests)
HP 13, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Research -2, CR +5, Ldr 20,
UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Warrior Smith Gold 195, Res 13, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, Sacr, Forge Bonus 1, CR +5, Resource Bonus 5, Ldr
60, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1?1, Wpn: Maul
Antlered Shaman Gold 390, Res 5, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 9, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Sacr, Stealth 40, CR +5, Ldr 60, MagLdr 50, Mag:
E2N2H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ulm, recruitable units
Axe Warrior Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all highlands, mountains and forests)
HP 13, Prot 10, MR 8, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Wpn: Axe, Axe,
Throwing Axe
Warrior Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all highlands, mountains and forests)
HP 13, Prot 10, MR 8, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword,
Axe
Archer Gold 10, Res 6, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all highlands, mountains and forests)
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Short Sword, Short Bow
Forest Warrior Gold 12, Res 16, Rec 14 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Wpn: Axe, Axe, Throwing Axe
Mountain Warrior Gold 12, Res 16, Rec 14 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword, Axe
Warrior Maiden Gold 12, Res 13, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 11, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Short Sword, Short Bow
Shield Maiden Gold 13, Res 13, Rec 16
HP 12, Prot 11, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Short Sword
Iron Warrior Gold 14, Res 13, Rec 18
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Maul
Steel Maiden Gold 14, Res 13, Rec 18
HP 12, Prot 11, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Wpn: Short Sword,
Short Sword
Steel Warrior Gold 28, Res 17, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, Sacr, CR +10, Wpn: Great Sword
258
[[page 259]]
Pyrène, Kingdom of the Bekrydes
Pyrène is a realm of sprawling caverns beneath a densely forested mountain range. Here the Bekrydes, cave dwelling
humans, have formed a kingdom. The Bekrydes live troglopastoral lives, herding Cave Cows and Blind Goats through their
vast caverns in search of mushroom meadows and muck fields filled with nutritious mineral. With the aid of ancient giants
skilled in crafting and farming the Bekrydes have spread to the mountains and forests surrounding their cavernous realm. The Bekrydes
are primitive by most standards, but with the guidance of the Basajaunak and the Jentilak, they have learned how to craft metal and now
the Bekrydes field small groups of elite warriors with metal armaments. In the mountains above the Pyrène caverns lies mount Anboto,
where the Sorginak gathers. These servants of a primordial storm deity have been allies of the Jentilak since time immemorial. Now they
aid the Bekryde kings as a favor to the Jentilak. In the mountains also live the Tartalo, sheep herding cyclopses of limited mental faculties.
Race: Cave-dwelling humans and various giants.
Economics: Extra gold and resources in cave forts.
Military: Humans and giant infantry, boulder throwing giants.
Magic: Earth, Air, some Nature and Water.
Priests: Weak.
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 300, labs cost 300
Pyrène, recruitable commanders
Bekryde Scout Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 1 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, MS, Stealth 60, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn:
Stone Spear
Bekryde Champion Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, Wpn: Stone
Spear
Bekryde Commander Gold 55, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 14, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Bronze Spear
Bekryde Shaman Gold 185, Res 4, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, MS, Sacr, Research -2, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr
10, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1H1?1, Wpn: Sceptre
Bekryde Shepherd Gold 55, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in the capital and all non-fort caves)
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 20, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Tartalo Gold 70, Res 3, Rec 2 (can be recruited in the capital and all non-fort highlands and mountains)
HP 47, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, MS, Ldr 35, Wpn: Great Club
Bebryx Gold 140, Res 16, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 14, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, Inspirational +2, DV
50, Ldr 75, Mag: H1, Wpn: Short Sword
Mairu Champion Gold 110, Res 7, Rec 2 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 45, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, MS, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: E1, Wpn: Maul,
Javelin
Sorgina Gold 430, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 22, FS, MS, Fly, Sacr, DV 100, Storm Immunity,
Ldr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag: A3W1E1N1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Jentil Gold 495, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 73, Prot 10, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 26, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, MS, Sacr, Forge Bonus 2, FR +5, CR +5, DV
50, Resource Bonus 25, Ldr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: W1E3N1, Wpn: Maul
Basajaun Gold 320, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in non-fort forests)
HP 31, Prot 7, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, Forge Bonus 1, FR +5, CR +5, DV
50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: E2N1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Basandere Gold 355, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in non-fort forests)
HP 26, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, Supply 50, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50,
Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: W1E1N2?1, Wpn: Fist
259
[[page 260]]
Pyrène, recruitable units
Bekryde Gold 12, Res 2, Rec 4 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club,
Sticks and Stones
Bekryde Gold 12, Res 2, Rec 4 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear,
Sticks and Stones
Bekryde Warrior Gold 12, Res 3, Rec 4 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
Bekryde Hunter Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 3 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear,
Net
Bekryde Infantry Gold 12, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 13, Prot 11, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze
Spear
Bekryde Heavy Infantry Gold 12, Res 14, Rec 9
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 14, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze
Spear
Mairu Warrior Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 15 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 42, Prot 9, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, MS, Wpn: Great Club
Mairu Hurler Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 15 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 40, Prot 9, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, MS, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Club, Boulder
Bebryx Guard Gold 20, Res 16, Rec 16 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 14, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn:
Short Sword
260
[[page 261]]
Agartha, Pale Ones
In dark caverns under the Roots of the Earth a strange kind of one-eyed humanoids has evolved. Untouched by the sun,
they have become known to humans as the Pale Ones. The Pale Ones are gifted with perfect darkvision and gills and
inhabit underwater rivers and lakes as well as cavernous halls. Pale Ones never stop growing and ancient ones can grow to
huge proportions. The wisest of the Ancient Ones are known as the Oracles, priest-mages of great power. The Oracles are gathered in a
great, cavernous hall where they divine the fate of the Pale Ones.
Race: Pale Ones and troglodytes. Darkvision. Poor amphibians. Extra gold and resources in cave forts.
Military: Light infantry, medium infantry, Wet Ones, huge and sacred Ancient Ones.
Magic: Earth, Fire, Water, Death.
Priests: Powerful
Scales & Blesses: Bless points +2
Buildings: Standard Forts
Agartha, recruitable commanders
Pale One Scout Gold 30, Res 6, Rec 1 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 20, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, MS, Amph, NNEat, Stealth 50, DV
100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Pale One Commander Gold 50, Res 17, Rec 1 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 22, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege
Strength +2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Troglodyte Lord Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 43, Prot 9, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 24, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 18, Trample, DV 100, Ldr 10, Wpn:
Claws
Ancient Lord Gold 175, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 44, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, Inspirational
+1, DV 100, Siege Strength +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Bronze Battleaxe
Engraver Gold 95, Res 3, Rec 2 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, Research +2, DV
100, Siege Strength +2, MagLdr 10, Mag: E1, Wpn: Hammer
Earth Reader Gold 260, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege
Strength +2, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: E2H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Olm Sage Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in the capital and all drip caves)
HP 28, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 10, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, CR +5, PR +15,
SpSi, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 50, MagLdr 80, Mag: W2E1, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast
Oracle of Subterranean Waters Gold 515, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 40, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege
Strength +5, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: W1E3H3?1, Wpn: Great Club
Oracle of Subterranean Fires Gold 515, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 40, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege
Strength +5, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 70, MagLdr 70, Mag: F1E3H3?1, Wpn: Great Club
Oracle of the Dead Gold 515, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 40, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, SpSi,
Siege Strength +5, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: E3D1H3?1, Wpn: Great Club
Wet One Captain Gold 50, Res 6, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 12, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege
Strength +2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bone Trident
261
[[page 262]]
Agartha, recruitable units
Pale One Militia Gold 6, Res 2, Rec 12 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 12, Mor 8, Str 12, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 10, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn:
Bronze Spear
Pale One Warrior Gold 9, Res 17, Rec 18 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn:
Bronze Spear
Pale One Warrior Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 18 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 9, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn:
Bronze Spear
Pale One Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 18 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2,
Wpn: Bronze Spear, Sticks and Stones
Wet One Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 18 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn:
Stone Spear
Cavern Guard Gold 12, Res 21, Rec 30 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 21, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn:
Bronze Glaive
Troglodyte Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 50
HP 37, Prot 7, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 18, Trample, DV 100, Wpn: Claws
Ancient One Gold 40, Res 19, Rec 32
HP 40, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength
+5, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ancient Stone Hurler Gold 40, Res 1, Rec 32
HP 42, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 20, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +10,
Wpn: Fist, Boulder
Ancient Stone Hurler Gold 40, Res 11, Rec 32
HP 42, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 20, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +10,
Wpn: Fist, Boulder
Seal Guard Gold 45, Res 37, Rec 39 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 44, Prot 14, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 19, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength
+5, Wpn: Obsidian Glaive
Great Olm Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 21 (can be recruited in the capital and all drip caves)
HP 28, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 10, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, CR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn:
Life Drain, Mind Blast
Wet One Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 18 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 14, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn:
Stone Spear
Wet One Gold 9, Res 5, Rec 18 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 12, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2,
Wpn: Stone Spear
Ancient Wet One Gold 35, Res 7, Rec 32 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 42, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 18, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength
+5, Wpn: Stone Spear
262
[[page 263]]
Abysia, Children of Flame
Abysia is a hot wasteland, at the center of which lies a great volcano whose lava-lit caverns are inhabited by magma-born
humanoids. Their flesh radiates heat and they are not harmed by flames. Abysians are stronger than humans and use very
heavy armor and weaponry. Bows are not used, as they would burn to cinders in the glowing hands of the Abysians. The
war machine of Abysia also includes salamanders, lizard-like beings composed of the same hot lava-born flesh as the Abysians. The
Anointed of Rhuax and the Anathemant Priests of the Flame Cult practice blood sacrifice to strengthen the power of the Awakening God.
The Warlocks of the Smouldercone, a newly formed magical order, practice Blood magic and search for suitable blood slaves in conquered
lands. Abysians prefer to live in extremely hot places. They do not farm or hunt for a living, so their income and supplies are not affected by
the Growth or Death scale of a province. However, population will still die slowly in Abysia-controlled provinces with Death scales.
Race: Radiates heat, fire resistance, prefers Heat scale +3, wasteland survival. Death and Growth scales have half the standard effect on income and 
population growth and no effect on supplies. Extra gold and resources in cave forts.
Military: Very heavy infantry, no missile weapons, salamanders
Magic: Fire, Blood, Astral, some Earth
Priests: Powerful, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +2, Death limit +1, Bless points +2
Buildings: Standard Forts, forts reduce heat scale deaths by 2 steps
Abysia, recruitable commanders
Slayer Gold 95, Res 10, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 11, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, WS, Stealth 60, Ambidex 3, FR +25, DV
50, Heat 3, Assassin, Patience +1, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Dagger
Beast Trainer Gold 70, Res 37, Rec 1
HP 19, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, WS, FR +25, Animal Awe +4, Inspirational
-1, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 25, MagLdr 10, Wpn: Iron Prod
Warlord Gold 110, Res 34, Rec 1
HP 19, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 12, Def 6, Prec 7, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, WS, Ambidex 2, FR +25, TM +2, DV 50,
Heat 3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Axe, Axe
Anathemant Salamander Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 2, CS 9, MM 14, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 70,
MagLdr 20, Mag: F2H1, Wpn: Dagger
Anathemant Dragon Gold 365, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 8, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 80,
MagLdr 40, Mag: F3E1H2, Wpn: Mace
Demonbred Gold 110, Res 13, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 20, WS, Fly, Stealth 60, Ambidex 3, FR +25,
DV 100, Heat 3, Assassin, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Dagger
Warlock Apprentice Gold 75, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 10, MM 14, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr
10, MagLdr 10, Mag: B1, Wpn: Dagger
Warlock Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Adept Cross
Breeder +2, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 50, Mag: S1B2, Wpn: Dagger
Anointed of Rhuax Gold 630, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 25, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 14, WS, Sacr, Heat pow 2, FR +25, DV 50,
Heat 9, Fire Shield 8 AP dmg, Ldr 190, MagLdr 50, Mag: F4E1H3, Wpn: Flaming Fist
263
[[page 264]]
Abysia, recruitable units
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 26, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Battleaxe
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 26, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Flail
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 27, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 8, CS 5, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Axe
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 28, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 8, CS 5, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Morningstar
Misbred Gold 20, Res 5, Rec 22 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 6, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 11, Def 6, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 5, MM 20, WS, Fly, Stealth 40, FR +25, DV 100, Heat 3, Wpn:
Battleaxe
Salamander Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 15
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Heat pow 1, FR +25, Heat 6, Wpn: Fire Flare,
Bite
Burning One Gold 70, Res 37, Rec 13 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 3, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, WS, Sacr, Ambidex 2, Heat pow 1, FR +25, DV 50,
Heat 6, Berserker +3, Fire Shield 8 AP dmg, Wpn: Morningstar, Morningstar
264
[[page 265]]
Hinnom, Sons of the Fallen
Hinnom is a dry wasteland inhabited by giants. At the dawn of time, on the sacred Mount Hermon, six Angels in full
celestial splendor descended to aid and instruct the giants of the land. The Avvim were a people strong and beautiful of
mind and body. They were adept students and their culture flourished under the tutelage of the Grigori, the angelic
Watchers. But before long the Angels became enamored with the Avvim and taught them things that should not be taught. Tempted by
the beauty of the Avvim, they took their daughters as wives and sinned before the Celestial Powers. Their offspring were the Nephilim,
giants of godlike power, abominable to the world. The Angels were imprisoned in the Infernal Realms for their sins, but the Nephilim were
partly of this world and could not be banished by the Celestial Powers. The Nephilim made themselves kings over the Avvim, and they
fathered sons who became known as the Rephaim. The Nephilim and their sons had unnatural appetites and consumed food, livestock,
beasts and finally their own offspring. With time, the Nephilim left Hinnom in search of a purpose and left their sons to rule the Avvim.
Race: Rephaite giants with enormous appetites. Lesser Avvite and Horite giants. Some Enkidu. Prefers Heat scale +2
Military: Horite cave dwellers, Enkidu slaves, Avvite giants, chariots.
Magic: Fire, Earth, Astral, Blood, some Air, Nature and Death.
Priests: Weak, sacred Rephaite giants, can perform blood sacrifices.
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts
Hinnom, recruitable commanders
Avvite Scout Gold 55, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 25, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, WS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Short Sword,
Javelin
Avvite Commander Gold 115, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Qedesim Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 21, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 14, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Sacr, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Qedesot Gold 100, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 19, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Horite Shaman Gold 125, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 25, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, MS, WS, Research -6, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr
10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1D1N1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ammi Gold 170, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
?2, Wpn: Fist
Acha Gold 225, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Healing 2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: N2,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Kohen Gold 350, Res 8, Rec 2
HP 50, Prot 7, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, WS, Sacr, NNEat, FR +5, Ldr 110, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 20, Mag: B1H1?1, Wpn: Censer, Gore
Ba'al Gold 635, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 66, Prot 10, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 22, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Sacr, NNEat, FR +10, Fear +5, Ldr 160,
UndLdr 20, MagLdr 60, Mag: B2H1?3, Wpn: Fist, Gore
Melqart Gold 675, Res 107, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 69, Prot 19, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 24, Att 15, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 20, WS, Sacr, NNEat, FR +10, Fear +5, Blood
Searcher 3, Sacrifice Bonus 3, Ldr 220, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 50, Mag: B3H1?2, Wpn: Dawn Blade, Gore
265
[[page 266]]
Hinnom, recruitable units
Enkidu Slave Gold 11, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 22, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 6, Str 14, Att 8, Def 5, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Wpn: Fist
Horite Gold 18, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 25, Prot 2, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 17, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, MS, WS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club
Horite Hunter Gold 21, Res 3, Rec 13
HP 26, Prot 7, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 17, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, MS, WS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Net, Stone
Spear
Horite Champion Gold 23, Res 2, Rec 10
HP 27, Prot 7, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, MS, WS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club
Avvite Spearman Gold 25, Res 21, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Avvite Light Infantry Gold 25, Res 13, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, WS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Avvite Swordsman Gold 25, Res 22, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Broad Sword
Avvite Heavy Archer Gold 25, Res 31, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 12, WS, Wpn: Short Sword, Great Bow
Avvite Horn Blower Gold 35, Res 24, Rec 24
HP 24, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 18, WS, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Dagger
Dawn Guard Gold 40, Res 29, Rec 28
HP 25, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Dawn Blade
Avvite Charioteer Gold 55, Res 18, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin, Mount: War Cart
Rephaite Warrior Gold 100, Res 50, Rec 39 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 55, Prot 15, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 22, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 18, WS, Sacr, NNEat, FR +5, Wpn: Dawn Blade,
Gore
Hinnom, mount stats
War Cart
HP 40, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 15, MM 20, WS, Trample, Wpn: Hoof, Hoof
266
[[page 267]]
Ubar, Kingdom of the Unseen
Ubar is the kingdom of the Unseen, the Jinnun of the deserts. Its heart is a paradise hidden beyond three deserts of
scorching heat, one red, one white, and one as black as the night. Beyond the three deserts lies a plateau hidden with the
mirages of the Jinnun. There is but one entrance in the cliffside of the plateau, and it is always guarded by invisible
sentinels. Once you have passed the entrance you enter a city covered in sand. This is Iram of a Thousand Pillars, home of the Jinnun. Once
this was a paradise with date palms, fountains and palaces in abundance. Towers of brass and marble rose towards the heavens, fist-sized
rubies and diamonds lit the streets and palaces, and the air was filled with music and pleasant fragrances. This was the City of Brass. But
the Lords of Ubar rebelled against the powers that were and the city was sealed by a divine decree. The Afarit, the mightiest of the Jinnun,
were imprisoned in their palaces with their rebel God. Now Iram is a desert city inhabited by a few Jinn and their human slaves, waiting for
the Gates of Brass to open, and the return of the Ifrit Sultan
Race: Jinn and human slaves. Prefers Heat scale +3
Military: Human infantry and camel riders, Ghuls, Jinn Warriors, sacred Ifrit warriors.
Magic: Fire, Air, Glamour, Blood, some Earth and very little Astral.
Priests: Weak, Guardian Spirits.
Dominion: Dominion hides province ownership.
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, forts reduce heat scale deaths by 1 step
Ubar, recruitable commanders
Ubaran Scout Gold 30, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 18, MS, WS, Stealth 50, Pillage +1, Wpn: Scimitar,
Short Bow
Ubaran Commander Gold 40, Res 18, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Inspirational -1, TM +2, Ldr 75, Wpn:
Bronze Scimitar
Ubaran Sheikh Gold 75, Res 8, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Stealth 40, Pillage +5, Retinue 1d3
Falcons, Rider 2, Ldr 50, Wpn: Scimitar, Composite Bow, Mount: Camel
Kahin Gold 100, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 20, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1,
Wpn: Dagger
Human Sahir Gold 160, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, WS, TM +1, Ldr 20, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1A1?1,
Wpn: Dagger
Tubba Gold 270, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Sacr, Research +4, FR +5, TM +2, Ldr
110, MagLdr 20, Mag: F1H1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Jinn Emir Gold 370, Res 27, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 15, MM 22, WS, Fly, Eth, Glamour, Sacr, Magic, Stealth
65, Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, TM +2, SpSi, Unseen, Storm Immunity, Ldr 120, MagLdr 40, Mag: F1A1H1?1, Wpn:
Enchanted Scimitar
Jinn Sahir Gold 390, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, WS, Fly, Eth, Glamour, Magic, Stealth 65,
Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, TM +1, SpSi, Veil Army 25 units, Unseen, Storm Immunity, Ldr 40, MagLdr 70, Mag:
F2A2G1?1, Wpn: Fist
267
[[page 268]]
Ubar, recruitable units
Ubaran Desert Warrior Gold 7, Res 7, Rec 5 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 18, WS, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Wpn: Scimitar,
Short Bow
Ubaran Soldier Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Ubaran Archer Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Bronze Dagger, Short Bow
Brazen Guard Gold 14, Res 18, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Wpn: Bronze Scimitar
Ghul Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 20 (can be recruited in the capital as well as all wastes)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 20, WS, Demon, Magic, NNEat, Stealth 40,
Regen 50%, FR +5, PR +15, SpSi, Wpn: Claw
Ubaran Camel Rider Gold 25, Res 8, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Retinue 1 ,
Rider 2, Wpn: Scimitar, Composite Bow, Mount: Camel
Jinn Warrior Gold 50, Res 21, Rec 27 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Fly, Eth, Glamour, Magic, Stealth 65,
Magic Power 1, FR +25, SR +5, CR -5, SpSi, Unseen, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Bronze Scimitar
Ubar, mount stats
Camel
HP 20, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 26, MM 26, WS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof
268
[[page 269]]
Ur, The First City
Ur is a warm plain inhabited by Enkidus, large, hairy wild men with horns and unkempt hair. Once upon a time all Enkidus
lived in the wild, frolicking with feral beasts, but when the Enkidus met with the Avvim, some Enkidus adopted their ways
of life. Now there are three Enkidu tribes. The members of the first tribe live pastoral lives and are led by shamans of
remarkable power. The second one is a ferocious, swamp dwelling hunter-gatherer society led by Head Hunters and Bone Readers. The
third tribe are the ones who adopted the Avvite way of life, of agriculture and metalworking. It is they who founded Eridu, the First City. In
the city a great temple was built and the kings of Eridu were inaugurated as priest-kings and rulers of the young nation. In the cities of Ur,
where metalworking is common, medium and heavy infantry is raised. On the plains and in the swamps of the nation nomadic Enkidus
gather and form quickly levied raiding parties. In the Swamps of Ur, near Eridu, live ancient dragon-kin known as Mushussus. They are
benevolent and powerful beings sacred to the Enkidus.
Race: Large, can recruit shamans and light infantry anywhere. Can recruit special units in swamps. Prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Enkidu infantry and sacred Mushussu dragons
Magic: Nature, Earth, Water, Air and some Death.
Priests: Strong, good at recalling a dead God. Recalled God doesn't lose magic skills. Sacred Mushussus.
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Fortified Cities
Ur, recruitable commanders
Enkidu Scout Gold 40, Res 2, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Stone Spear
Enkidu Elder Gold 20, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 12, Inspirational -1, Ldr 90, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Enkidu Commander Gold 60, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 26, Prot 9, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Gala Gold 105, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 14, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, Spell Singer, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag:
N1H1, Wpn: Fist
Sal-Me Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: W1N1H1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Gudu Gold 220, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: H1?2, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Ishib Gold 275, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: W2H2?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Entu Gold 385, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, Inspirational +2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
E2N1H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ensi Gold 425, Res 9, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 26, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Sacr, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 40,
Mag: W2N1H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Enkidu Chief Gold 60, Res 4, Rec 1 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 26, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 16, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Ldr 50, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Enkidu Hunter Chief Gold 70, Res 4, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all non-fort swamps)
HP 26, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, SS, Stealth 40, Berserker +2, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Stone Spear, Javelin
Enkidu Head Hunter Gold 85, Res 2, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all non-fort swamps)
HP 28, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, SS, Stealth 40, Pillage +5, Berserker +4, Ldr 50,
Wpn: Skull Club
269
[[page 270]]
Enkidu Bone Reader Gold 170, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in all non-fort swamps)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, SS, Stealth 40, Research -4, Fortune Teller
10, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1D1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Enkidu Shaman Gold 385, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Research -4, Ldr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag:
E2N3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Kulullu Commander Gold 60, Res 11, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 31, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 20, Aqua, Ldr 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Kulullu King Gold 200, Res 11, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 32, Prot 11, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 18, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 100, MagLdr 10, Mag: W1H2,
Wpn: Bronze Spear
Kulullu Sage Gold 265, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 26, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, Aqua, Research +4, Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag:
W2?1, Wpn: Fist
Kuliltu Queen Gold 270, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 24, Prot 4, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 13, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W1N1H2?1,
Wpn: Fist
Ur, recruitable units
Enkidu Soldier Gold 16, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 18, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Enkidu Spear Guard Gold 16, Res 14, Rec 9
HP 24, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ur-Guard Gold 19, Res 14, Rec 13
HP 26, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Enkidu Horn Blower Gold 35, Res 2, Rec 21
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 18, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Enki's Chosen Gold 29, Res 19, Rec 18 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 27, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Mushussu Gold 150, Res 1, Rec 50 (max 1/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 68, Prot 15, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 20, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, SS, Sacr, PR +15, Fear +5, Wpn: Gore, Claw,
Venomous Fangs
Enkidu Gold 16, Res 2, Rec 9 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Wpn: Club
Enkidu Archer Gold 16, Res 7, Rec 9 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Wpn: Stone Dagger, Long Bow
Enkidu Warrior Gold 16, Res 6, Rec 9 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 18, Wpn: Stone Spear
Enkidu Warrior Gold 16, Res 6, Rec 9 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 18, Wpn: Club
Enkidu Hunter Gold 16, Res 4, Rec 9 (can be recruited in all non-fort swamps)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, SS, Stealth 40, Berserker +1, Wpn: Stone
Spear, Javelin
Enkidu Reaver Gold 26, Res 4, Rec 23 (can be recruited in all non-fort swamps)
HP 27, Prot 7, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 17, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, SS, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Berserker +3, Wpn:
Bronze Hatchet
Kulullu Gold 16, Res 2, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 28, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, Aqua, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Kulullu Soldier Gold 16, Res 11, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 28, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 20, Aqua, Wpn: Bronze Spear
270
[[page 271]]
Kailasa, Rise of the Ape Kings
On the sacred Mount Kailasa, beings from an earlier era still linger. They are blessed with mystical powers but are few in number.
With the emergence of the New God they have mustered aid from a most unsuspected source. Deep in the forests below the
Sacred Mountain, apes of uncanny brightness have evolved. The apes are uncivilized and have only recently mastered the
mysteries of metalworking.
Race: Yakshas and apes, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: A multitude of missile weapons and light infantry
Magic: Water, Earth, Astral, Glamour and Nature
Priests: Weak
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Kailasa, recruitable commanders
Markata Scout Gold 25, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 60, Wpn: Dagger, Sticks and Stones
Atavi Chieftain Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Falchion, Sticks and Stones
Bandar Commander Gold 105, Res 18, Rec 1
HP 23, Prot 13, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Guhyaka General Gold 145, Res 7, Rec 2
HP 28, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Awe +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Yogi Gold 80, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: S1, Wpn: Fist
Guru Gold 225, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 2, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: S2N1, Wpn: Fist
Yaksha Gold 515, Res 6, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 28, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Awe +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag:
E3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
Yakshini Gold 515, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Amph, Awe +2, Ldr 50, MagLdr 90, Mag:
W3N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Fist, Kick
Kailasa, recruitable units
Markata Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Club, Sticks and Stones
Markata Archer Gold 5, Res 2, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Fist, Short Bow
Atavi Archer Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Atavi Infantry Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and Stones
Light Bandar Archer Gold 16, Res 6, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Mace, Long Bow
Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 3, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and Stones
Bandar Swordsman Gold 19, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Falchion
Guhyaka Gold 27, Res 2, Rec 18
HP 23, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Awe +1, Wpn: Spear, Kick
Yavana Archer Gold 30, Res 5, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Awe +1, Wpn: Dagger, Kick, Long Bow
Yavana Gold 35, Res 7, Rec 24 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Awe +1, Wpn: Falchion, Kick
271
[[page 272]]
Lanka, Land of Demons
On the dark and densely forested island of Lanka, Rakshasas, demon ogres from an earlier era, still linger. Gifted with
tremendous strength, they once fought the Devatas of Kailasa, but since then the most powerful of the Rakshasas have
left this world for the Nether Realms. The remaining Rakshasas have captured and enslaved the monkey people of Kailasa
and made them serve as warriors, hunters or food. The Rakshasas had no use for the peaceful White Ones and Kala-Mukhas, Rakshasa
halfbreeds, lead the monkey people of Lanka. Since the enslavement of the apes, the ancient conflict between the Devatas of Kailasa and
the Rakshasas of Lanka has been renewed. Rakshasas have an affinity for blood magic and in times of strife they are drawn to the blood of
innocents.
Race: Demon ogres, apes and undead, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: Strong Rakshasa infantry, missile units and light infantry, reanimated apes
Magic: Air, Blood, Death, Glamour, Nature
Priests: Medium. National priests can reanimate the dead.
Dominion: Blood hunts give more blood slaves in turmoil and less in order
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Lanka, recruitable commanders
Markata Scout Gold 25, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 60, Wpn: Dagger, Sticks and Stones
Atavi Chieftain Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Falchion, Sticks
and Stones
Bandar Commander Gold 105, Res 18, Rec 1
HP 23, Prot 13, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Bandaraja Gold 160, Res 19, Rec 2
HP 21, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Ldr 150, Wpn: Battleaxe
Raktapata Gold 110, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 21, Prot 6, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 10, Mag:
B1H1, Wpn: Fist
Yogini Gold 210, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 16, Prot 6, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Ldr 10, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 30, Mag:
D1N2B1, Wpn: Mace
Kala-Mukha Gold 240, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 25, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 20,
Mag: B1H2?1, Wpn: Mace
Rakshasi Gold 425, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 28, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 2, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40, Chaos
Power 1, FR -5, Ldr 50, UndLdr 140, MagLdr 50, Mag: D1N1G1B1H1?2, Wpn: Mace
Raksharaja Gold 550, Res 19, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 15, MR 16, Mor 15, Str 22, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1, FR
-5, Ldr 100, UndLdr 130, MagLdr 50, Mag: A2D1B2H2?1, Wpn: Falchion, Gore
272
[[page 273]]
Lanka, recruitable units
Markata Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Club, Sticks and Stones
Markata Archer Gold 5, Res 2, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Fist, Short Bow
Atavi Archer Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Atavi Infantry Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and Stones
Light Bandar Archer Gold 16, Res 6, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Mace, Long Bow
Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 11, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and Stones
Asara Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 33, Prot 3, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 20, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Demon, Chaos Power 1, Wpn: Spear,
Javelin
Anusara Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 28, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Chaos Power 1,
Wpn: Mace
Kala-Mukha Warrior Gold 50, Res 18, Rec 32
HP 24, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Sacr, DV 50, Wpn: Falchion
Palankasha Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 30, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 15, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Demon, Chaos Power 1, Wpn:
Falchion
273
[[page 274]]
T'ien Ch'i, Spring and Autumn
The Celestial Empire has not yet been founded. The magic of The Way permeates the realm and reclusive mages conjure
Celestial Beings to do their bidding. Nobles wage war upon each other for honor and glory. A few chosen warriors and
mages dedicate their lives to training in the Way of the Five Elements. The deceased are worshiped and village priests
conjure the dead to ask for guidance and aid. It is a time of legends.
Race: Humans
Military: Versatile and well-equipped with large shields and iron armaments. Noble chariots.
Magic: Water, Astral, Air, Fire, Nature, Glamour, Earth and some Death, Summon Celestial Beings
Priests: Average
Buildings: Standard Forts
T'ien Ch'i, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger,
Short Bow
Noble Commander Gold 135, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion, Mount:
Cataphracted Chariot
Student of the Sword Gold 70, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 2, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Research -4, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10,
Mag: ?1, Wpn: Broad Sword, Stunning Strike
Master of the Dead Gold 100, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, Mag: D1H1,
Wpn: Dagger, Thrown Sutra
Student of the Way Gold 120, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, NNEat, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag:
W1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Master of the Five Elements Gold 355, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 20, MagLdr 60, Mag:
F1A1W1E1N1H1?1, Wpn: Bamboo Rod
Celestial Master Gold 485, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, NNEat, SpSi, Ldr 20, MagLdr
90, Mag: F1A1W2S1G1H2?2, Wpn: Yak Tail Fly Whisk
Student of the Five Elements Gold 85, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 20, MagLdr 10, Mag: ?1, Wpn:
Dagger
Master of the Sword Gold 170, Res 5, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in non-fort forests, highlands and mountains)
HP 14, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 15, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, NNEat, Research -4, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 20, Mag: ?2, Wpn: Broad Sword, Spirit Strike
Master of the Way Gold 265, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, NNEat, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
W1?2, Wpn: Dagger
274
[[page 275]]
T'ien Ch'i, recruitable units
Footman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Pike
Footman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Glaive
Footman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Archer Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword, Composite Bow
Heavy Footman Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Glaive
Heavy Footman Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Spear
Medium Footman Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Glaive
Medium Footman Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Horseman Gold 25, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Rider 1, Wpn: Light Lance,
Composite Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Noble Gold 40, Res 21, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Wpn: Falchion, Mount:
Cataphracted Chariot
Warrior of the Five Elements Gold 35, Res 6, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Ambidex 2, FR +5, SR +5, CR
+5, PR +5, Wpn: Short Sword, Short Sword
T'ien Ch'i, mount stats
Armored Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 26, Wpn: Hoof
Cataphracted Chariot
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 20, Trample, Wpn: Hoof
275
[[page 276]]
Yomi, Oni Kings
Yomi is a land of inhospitable mountains, steaming, sulphuric pools and sudden volcanic eruptions. At the center of this
unforgiving land lies a great cone-shaped mountain at the top of which is an entrance to the Netherworld. From this gate
the Oni have come, one by one or in small groups. Oni are demons of the wild, ugly, pot-bellied and mischievous. They are
ruled by Oni Kings who occasionally emerge from the Netherworld to wreak havoc on the land of the living. Oni are almost immortal and
must be killed in spirit as well as in body if they are to stay dead. They are worshiped by human priests who build profane temple-gates
through which even more Oni can enter the land.
Race: Demons. Reduced income. Halved income effects of heat and cold scales. Extra gold and resources in cave forts.
Military: Semi-immortal Oni, Bakemono and human servants. Light infantry, medium infantry. No sacred troops
Magic: Death, Fire, Earth, some Air and Nature. Powerful mages, bad at research. Some national summons
Priests: Weak, Provinces with temples spawn Oni
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts, temples cost 300
Yomi, recruitable commanders
Bandit Leader Gold 60, Res 16, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Stealth 40, Pillage +3, Ldr 50, Wpn: No-Dachi
Bakemono Chief Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Ldr 50, Wpn: Wakizashi
Demon Priest Gold 75, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Dagger
Namanari Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, MS, SS, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: D1N1,
Wpn: Poison Dagger
Sorcerer Gold 160, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, MS, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1D1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Demon General Gold 175, Res 22, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Ldr 150, UndLdr 100, Mag: D1, Wpn: Katana
Oni Shugo Gold 275, Res 34, Rec 2
HP 30, Prot 21, MR 16, Mor 18, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 10, MS, Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Research -4, Chaos
Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, SpSi, Pillage +3, Retinue 1d6 Wolves, Ldr 35, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 10, Mag: D2?1, Wpn: No-Dachi, Throw
Flames, Javelin
Dai Oni Gold 685, Res 52, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 50, Prot 21, MR 18, Mor 18, Str 20, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, MS, Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Research -12, Chaos
Power 1, FR +5, PR +5, Fear +5, SpSi, Pillage +5, Retinue 1d6 Wolves, Ldr 80, UndLdr 300, MagLdr 50, Mag: F2E2D3H1?1, Wpn:
Enchanted No-Dachi, Throw Flames, Javelin
Yomi, recruitable units
Bakemono-Sho Gold 7, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Club
Bakemono-Sho Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Yari
Bakemono Archer Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Bandit Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 5
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Wpn: Yari
Bandit Gold 9, Res 16, Rec 5
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Wpn: Wakizashi, Short
Bow
276
[[page 277]]
Caelum, Eagle Kings
Caelum is a magocracy of winged humanoids who inhabit the highest mountain peaks. They are the offspring of the
Yazatas, semi-divine beings of an earlier age. Three tribes served the Yazatas in ancient times, the Kavi, the Airyas and the
Mairyas. But some were led astray by the wicked Mainyus and Daevas. With the corruption of the purifying flame the
Daevas as well as the Yazatas were banished from this world. With the disappearance of the Yazatas the three tribes were dispersed and
fled their homelands. But when some Yazatas reemerged from hiding, the three tribes gathered and settled in the high mountain range
where the last of the Eagle Kings resided. The former tribes are now known as the Tempest Clan of Spire Horn Mountain, the Raptor Clan
of Raven's Vale and the Airyas of High Caelum. The Spire Horn Caelians are partially resistant to cold and lightning. The Raptorians are
stronger and attuned to the Earth, but lack the elemental resistance characteristic of the other clans. The Airya once lived in the land of
the White Forest where winter lasts for ten months. They still live in the coldest mountain peaks and are unaffected by low temperatures.
Their priestesses try to purify the taint of the daevas and are keepers of the sacred flame of the White Forest. The Airya Seraphs craft
magical ice that the many Caelians use instead of regular metal. The ice tempers with lower temperatures and the heavy ice armor is more
durable in cold climates than in warmer ones. All weapons crafted from the ice are magical and capable of harming magical beings. The
Caelians are skilled archers and prefer hit-and-run tactics, even though they do have some heavy troops, such as huge Mammoths.
Race: Flying, partially cold resistant, partially shock resistant, prefers Cold scale +2
Military: Flying units, skilled archers, mammoths
Magic: Air, some Water, Earth, Death and Fire
Priests: Average, Guardian Spirits.
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Caelum, recruitable commanders
Caelian Scout Gold 35, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Stealth 55, SR +5, CR +5, Ice Armor 1, Storm
Immunity, Wpn: Ice Blade
Sastar Gold 105, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 11, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, SR +10, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Ldr 100,
Wpn: Ice Blade
Spire Horn Seraph Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Ldr 10, MagLdr
10, Mag: A1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Airya Seraphine Gold 150, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 65, CR +15, Ldr 60, MagLdr 10, Mag:
F1H2, Wpn: Ice Knife
Harab Seraph Gold 160, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 10, Mag: A1D1?1,
Wpn: Short Sword
Airya Seraph Gold 175, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: A2W1, Wpn: Ice
Knife
Mairya Ahu Gold 90, Res 12, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 24, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Pillage +5, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Short Sword
Eagle King Gold 555, Res 25, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 13, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, Magic, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +3, Storm
Immunity, Ldr 100, MagLdr 80, Mag: A4W1E1H2, Wpn: Ice Blade
277
[[page 278]]
Caelum, recruitable units
Raptorian Militia Gold 8, Res 4, Rec 5
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 20, Fly, Wpn: Spear
Spire Horn Militia Gold 8, Res 5, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 20, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Wpn: Ice Spear
Airya Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Lance
Airya Infantry Gold 10, Res 16, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Blade
Raptorian Warrior Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, Wpn: Short Sword
Spire Horn Archer Gold 10, Res 6, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Ice Knife,
Short Bow
Spire Horn Warrior Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Ice
Lance
Blizzard Warrior Gold 15, Res 13, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Storm Immunity, Wpn:
Ice Knife, Frost Bow
Iceclad Gold 15, Res 24, Rec 21
HP 9, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Wpn: Ice Lance
Tempest Warrior Gold 15, Res 12, Rec 21
HP 11, Prot 11, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, SR +10, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Ice
Lance
Mammoth Rider Gold 120, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +20, Storm Immunity, Wpn:
Small Hammer, Mount: Mammoth, Coriders: 2 * Mammoth Archers
Kavi Archer Gold 14, Res 9, Rec 12 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, Storm Power 2, SR +10, CR +5, Wpn: Ice
Knife, Short Bow
Airya Temple Guard Gold 20, Res 26, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Sacr, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Wpn: Ice Blade
Mairya Warrior Gold 20, Res 11, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 11, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 24, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Wpn: Light
Lance
Caelum, mount stats
Mammoth
HP 64, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, CR +15, Wpn: Tusk
278
[[page 279]]
Mictlan, Reign of Blood
Mictlan is an ancient tribal empire that has been isolated for centuries. The foul practices of the priest-kings of Mictlan have caused
most of their neighbors to leave or face slavery and blood sacrifice. Since the dawn of the kingdom, blood has been spilled in the
temples of the capital to feed the waning powers of the Hungry God. The armies are mainly composed of slaves from newly
conquered lands. The mage-priests of Mictlan celebrate the two Faces and the two Dominions of the Hungry God, namely the Sun and the Moon, the
Rain and the Forest. They are all skilled blood mages.
Race: Humans, prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Light infantry with slings and javelins, tribal kings can levy slaves, sacred Jaguar and Eagle Warriors
Magic: Blood, Fire, Astral, Nature, Water
Priests: Powerful, can perform blood sacrifices, Dominion does not spread unless blood is sacrificed
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Heat limit +1, Bless points +3
Buildings: Primitive Fortified Cities
Mictlan, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Stone Spear, Sling
Tribal King Gold 125, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 100, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword,
Javelin
Mictlan Priest Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: B1H1, Wpn:
Stone Dagger
Nahualli Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: S1N2, Wpn: Stone
Dagger
Rain Priest Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 40, Mag: W2B2H2,
Wpn: Stone Dagger
Moon Priest Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 60, Mag:
S2B2H2, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Priest King Gold 325, Res 5, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 150, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 40, Mag:
N2B2H2, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
High Priest of the Sun Gold 425, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 12, FS, Sacr, Ldr 70, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 50, Mag: F2B3H3,
Wpn: Stone Dagger
Mictlan, recruitable units
Warrior Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Stone Spear, Sling
Warrior Gold 9, Res 5, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Stone Spear, Sling
Warrior Gold 9, Res 7, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Stone Spear, Javelin
Warrior Gold 9, Res 14, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Mace, Javelin
Moon Warrior Gold 12, Res 15, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, DV 50, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Feathered Warrior Gold 18, Res 14, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Mace, Javelin
Eagle Warrior Gold 15, Res 3, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ambidex 3, Wpn: Bronze Lance, Stone Dagger
Sun Warrior Gold 18, Res 15, Rec 18 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Sacr, FR +5, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet, Javelin
Jaguar Warrior Gold 26, Res 4, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
279
[[page 280]]
Xibalba, Vigil of the Sun
Xibalba is a vast realm of dark caverns beneath the forests of Mictlan. According to legend, the sun and the moon passed
through the labyrinthine caverns on their daily journey to the eastern horizon. On this journey they were guarded by the
bat people, Zotz, that dwelled in the dark reaches of the Xibalban underworld. Being almost blind, they would not see and
not covet the splendor of the sun. No one has seen the sun or the moon pass through Xibalba for ages, but the Zotz keep their vigil and
their traditions alive. But lately the bat people has lost purpose and the priestly rulers of Xibalba look to the surface world to once more
bask in the splendor of the sun and the moon. The Zotz are led by priest-kings from various cities, and only the priesthood represents
centralized power. They still train the sacred Sun Guides once tasked with guarding the celestial entities through the dark world of
Xibalba. The Zotz have contact with surface dwellers, primarily those of Mictlan, and have adopted some of their technology and
practices. The Zotz have an affinity for blood hunting and black magic. Despite being guides of the sun, their skill in solar magic is limited.
The Zotz are numerous and live in great swarming cave colonies. Numbers rather than strength allows them to win their battles.
Race: Swarms of cheap, flying, stealthy cave dwellers, prefers Heat scale +1, extra gold and resources in cave forts
Military: Flying, stealthy light infantry and scorpions
Magic: Death, Blood, Earth, Fire, some Air and Nature
Priests: Average, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Sloth limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Xibalba, recruitable commanders
Batab Gold 60, Res 4, Rec 1 (can be recruited in forts as well as all forests and caves)
HP 7, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol
-1, Ldr 75, MagLdr 10, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Xibalban Scorpion Trainer Gold 85, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol
-1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 100, Wpn: Whip
Ajaw Gold 145, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1,
Patrol -1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Ajaw Kan Ek' Gold 240, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 7, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1,
Patrol -1, Ldr 150, MagLdr 10, Mag: H2, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Ah Nakom Gold 95, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Inspirational -1, Blood
Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: B1H1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Chilan Gold 145, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1,
Patrol -1, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1D1H1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Ah K'in Gold 155, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1,
Patrol -1, Ldr 60, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1H1?1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Ah Itz Gold 165, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Ldr 10, UndLdr 110, MagLdr 20, Mag: D1B1?1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Camazotz Gold 225, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol
-1, Ldr 10, UndLdr 110, MagLdr 30, Mag: D2B1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ah K'in Kan Ek' Gold 385, Res 10, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 7, Prot 11, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 5, Prec 5, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, FR +5, Blood Searcher
1, Patrol -1, Ldr 70, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 50, Mag: F2E1D1H2?1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
280
[[page 281]]
Onaqui Gold 790, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 31, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Demon, NNEat, Stealth 40,
Blood Searcher 2, Retinue 2 Beast Bats, Dominion Summoner 1+ Beast Bats, Ldr 100, UndLdr 230, MagLdr 60, Mag:
D3N1B3H2?1, Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Claw, Claw
Xibalba, recruitable units
Large Scorpion Gold 1, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 1, Prot 1, MR 3, Mor 50, Str 1, Att 8, Def 5, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 4, MM 10, WS, Magic, Mind, NNEat, Stealth 40, Wpn: Sting
Giant Scorpion Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 5, Prot 5, MR 3, Mor 50, Str 5, Att 11, Def 6, Prec 4, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 10, WS, Magic, Mind, NNEat, Stealth 40, PR +15, Wpn:
Sting
Xibalban Warrior Gold 8, Res 1, Rec 6 (can be recruited in forts as well as all forests and caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Wpn: Stone Lance
Xibalban Warrior Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 6 (can be recruited in forts as well as all forests and caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Xibalban Dart Thrower Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Wpn: Mace, Obsidian Dart
Xibalban Guard Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 12
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Xibalban Scorpion Gold 15, Res 1, Rec 15 (max 15/month)
HP 16, Prot 12, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 3, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 10, WS, PR +15, DV 100, Wpn: Pincer, Scorpion
Tail
Sun Guide Gold 18, Res 20, Rec 24 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 16, FS, Fly, Sacr, FR +5, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol
-1, Wpn: Obsidian Shard Blade
281
[[page 282]]
C'tis, Lizard Kings
C'tis is a swampy river valley surrounded by sandy deserts. In the fertile valley a sacral kingdom of lizard-like humanoids
has formed. The kingdom is ancient by human standards and its wisdom and magical knowledge is great. At the top of the
society is the Lizard King and his Royal Heirs. The king is the highest priest of C'tis. Under the king are the High Priests
with their sacred serpents and the enigmatic Sauromancers, great mages of death and rebirth. The lizards are herbivores, but have
enslaved a race of carnivorous lizardmen who serve as soldiers and workers. The C'tissians are somewhat slow in movement, but have
thick hides that protect them from cuts and bruises. Both lizard races are cold-blooded and become exhausted very quickly when fighting
in cold provinces. They have partial resistance to poison. The inhabitants of C'tis prefer to live in warm provinces.
Race: Thick hides, cold-blooded, poison resistance, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: Chariots, infantry, slave warriors, sacred serpents
Magic: Death, Nature, some Water and Astral
Priests: Powerful
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
C'tis, recruitable commanders
Taskmaster Gold 40, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, PR +5, TM +2, Ldr 50, Wpn: Whip
Commander of C'tis Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Spear
Lizard Lord Gold 95, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 8, SS, PR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Hierodule Gold 40, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Mag: H1, Wpn: Claw
High Priest of C'tis Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Claw
Lizard Shaman Gold 125, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1N1,
Wpn: Mace, Bite
Reborn Gold 145, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, PR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, Mag: D2, Wpn: Claw
Sauromancer Gold 295, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, PR +10, Invulnerability 15, Ldr 10, UndLdr
150, MagLdr 20, Mag: D3N1?1, Wpn: Claw
Lizard Heir Gold 185, Res 12, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 20, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Falchion, Mount: Royal Chariot
Lizard King Gold 340, Res 5, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 150, Mag: H3, Wpn:
Falchion
C'tis, recruitable units
Militia Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 5
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
C'tissian Heavy Infantry Gold 10, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
City Guard Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
C'tissian Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Runner Gold 12, Res 2, Rec 7
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear, Bite
282
[[page 283]]
Slave Warrior Gold 13, Res 3, Rec 8
HP 13, Prot 3, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Trident, Bite
Falchioneer Gold 13, Res 17, Rec 18
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, SS, Ambidex 2, PR +5, Wpn: Falchion,
Falchion
Elite Warrior Gold 15, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 13, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Trident, Bite
Lizard Charioteer Gold 40, Res 12, Rec 32
HP 13, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, PR +5, Wpn: Falchion, Mount: Lizard
Chariot
Serpent Dancer Gold 19, Res 2, Rec 22 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +15, Wpn: Snake Staff
C'tis, mount stats
Lizard Chariot
HP 23, Prot 19, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 4, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 18, Trample, PR +5, Wpn: Bite
Royal Chariot
HP 25, Prot 19, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 14, Def 10, Prec 4, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 18, Sacr, Trample, PR +5, Wpn: Bite
283
[[page 284]]
Machaka, Lion Kings
Machaka is an old sacral kingdom divided into totemic clans. The clans follow their totemic spirits and worship them as
bringers of civilization and tell myths about their interactions with men. For centuries the Lion Clan has dominated the
others and formed a unified kingdom under their wise rule. The Lion Clan is blessed by Lion and they are superior to other
men. The Great Men of Mababwe, called 'Colossi' by Arcoscephalean historians, have ruled the plains since Hyena was coerced to teach
metalworking to men and Rhino was defeated by spears longer than his. From Great Mababwe, the semi-divine Colossi of the Lion Clan
rule their lesser kin as sacred Kings and Queens. There are many totemic clans, but some have been more influential. Hyena, Rhino,
Elephant and Spider all serve Lion with their totemic masters' skills and guidance. Recent contact with Berytos and other nations has seen
the rise of ambition among the Colossi royalty and the Lion Kings are preparing for the Awakening of Lion.
Race: Humans and Colossi, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: Infantry, poison archers, spider riders, war lions, elephants
Magic: Fire, Earth, Death, Nature, Glamour
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Machaka, recruitable commanders
Machaka Scout Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Dagger, Short
Bow
Voice of Spider Gold 105, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Stealth 60, Spy, Wpn: Short
Sword
Rhino Clan Commander Gold 55, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Ldr 75, Wpn: Machaka Spear
Lion Clan Commander Gold 105, Res 8, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, Ldr 100, Wpn: Machaka Spear
Voice of Lion Gold 115, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: N1H1,
Wpn: Mace
Spider Clan Witch Doctor Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Research -4, PR +5, Ldr 20, UndLdr
50, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1D1N1G1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Hyena Clan Witch Doctor Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, WS, Disease Healing 1, Heretic 1, Ldr 20,
UndLdr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag: F1E1D2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Bouda Gold 300, Res 3, Rec 4
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, WS, Forge Bonus 1, Heretic 2, Ldr 20,
UndLdr 150, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1E2D2?1, Wpn: Hammer
Spider Clan Sorcerer Gold 270, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, PR +5, Ldr 40, UndLdr 50, MagLdr
60, Mag: F1D1N1G1?2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Lion Queen Gold 445, Res 7, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Ldr 80, MagLdr 60, Mag:
F3E1N2H1, Wpn: Golden Spear
Lion King Gold 490, Res 10, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Ldr 120, MagLdr 60, Mag:
F2E1N3H2, Wpn: Spirit Club
284
[[page 285]]
Machaka, recruitable units
Pygmy Gold 5, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 4, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 6, Str 4, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 7, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Machaka Militia Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, Wpn: Spear
Bird Clan Archer Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Machaka Warrior Gold 10, Res 2, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, Wpn: Spear
Hyena Clan Warrior Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, WS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Spider Clan Archer Gold 12, Res 4, Rec 20 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Wpn: Dagger, Poison Bow
Spider Clan Warrior Gold 12, Res 5, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Wpn: Poison Tipped Spear
Rhino Clan Warrior Gold 13, Res 13, Rec 16
HP 13, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Machaka Spear
Lion Clan Warrior Gold 14, Res 6, Rec 18
HP 12, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, Wpn: Machaka Spear
War Lion Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 13
HP 20, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 22, DV 50, Wpn: Bite, Claw
Spider Rider Gold 25, Res 4, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Spear, Short Bow, Mount: Great
Spider
Elephant Rider Gold 100, Res 2, Rec 9
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, Wpn: Small Hammer, Mount: Machaka War
Elephant, Coriders: 2 * Elephant Archers
Lion Warrior Gold 40, Res 23, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 22, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 20, Sacr, Invulnerability 18, Wpn: Spirit Club
Machaka, mount stats
Machaka War Elephant
HP 69, Prot 11, MR 7, Mor 10, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn: Tusk
Great Spider
HP 26, Prot 14, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, FS, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Web,
Web Spit
285
[[page 286]]
Berytos, The Phoenix Empire
The people of Berytos are the descendants of a civilization created by the Telkhines, titanic storm demons defeated by a
previous Pantokrator. The Telkhines taught shipbuilding, sailing and metalcrafting to the human ancestors of Berytos.
When the Telkhines were defeated, the humans fled across the sea, led by the Storm Callers, disciples of the Telkhines.
With the knowledge of ironcrafting and the magical might of the Storm Callers, new colonies were founded on distant shores. Like a
phoenix, the dying empire was reborn. But the Telkhine gods were dead and the humans sought divine leadership. They found the
Melqarts of Hinnom. One of the colonies was situated near Ashdod and the bloody cult of the Melqarts soon spread through the Phoenix
Empire. In the capital colony of Berytos, a great temple to the Melqarts was built. But soon another power found its way into the cult.
Refugee Colossi, great men of the Machakan royal family, arrived in Berytos and established themselves as rulers of the bloody cult. Their
sorceresses claimed divinity and called themselves Brides-in-Waiting. Now Berytos is a seafaring people led by sorcerer-queens from the
great temple in Berytos.
Race: Ocean sailing, trace income across oceans, income bonus in coastal castles. Can recruit special mages in coastal castles. Prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Archers, light and medium infantry, lancers and Elephants
Magic: Blood, Fire, Air, Water, Earth and some Astral
Priests: Strong, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1
Buildings: Advanced Forts
Berytos, recruitable commanders
Berytian Scout Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 55, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Berytian Captain Gold 140, Res 17, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Short Sword
Mage Pilot Gold 110, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag:
A1W1, Wpn: Dagger
Berytian Sage Gold 110, Res 4, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Research +2, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 10, MagLdr
20, Mag: E1?1, Wpn: Hammer
Berytian Priest Gold 200, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, MagLdr
20, Mag: B1H1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Storm Caller Gold 290, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 60, MagLdr 50, Mag:
A2W2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Bride-in-Waiting Gold 580, Res 7, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Ldr 120, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 80, Mag:
F2A2E1B2H2?1, Wpn: Golden Spear
Berytos, recruitable units
Berytian Militia Gold 7, Res 5, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Wpn: Spear
Berytian Archer Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Berytian Spearman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Berytian Soldier Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword
Berytian Heavy Spearman Gold 12, Res 19, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Long Spear
Berytian Elite Soldier Gold 14, Res 19, Rec 18
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Short Sword
286
[[page 287]]
Berytian Lancer Gold 30, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: War Horse
Elephant Rider Gold 100, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Small Hammer, Mount: War
Elephant, Coriders: 2 * Elephant Archers
Colossi Warrior Gold 35, Res 22, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 22, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, Sacr, Wpn: Short Sword
Berytos, mount stats
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
War Elephant
HP 64, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn: Tusk
287
[[page 288]]
Vanheim, Age of Vanir
Vanheim is a land of misty moors and bitter forests inhabited by a tall and innately magical race known as the Vanir. The Vanir are
mortal enemies of the giants of Jotunheim and since the beginning of time they have waged a great war upon each other. They are
masters of illusions and are able to trick mortals with their glamour. In halls under the mountains of Vanheim live Dwarves, smiths
capable of crafting fabulous items. Vanheim is a land of magic and even the horses are enchanted and exceptionally fast. Vanir are skilled
shipwrights and navigators and can sail the oceans. Lesser beings are not held in high regard and their blood is sacrificed to sate the Awakening
God.
Race: Ocean sailing, trace income across oceans, illusions, prefers Cold scale +1
Military: Vanir
Magic: Air, Glamour, Earth, Blood, some Fire and Death
Priests: Average, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Vanheim, recruitable commanders
Van Scout Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 12, FS, MS, Glamour, Stealth 75, Wpn: Spear
Vanherse Gold 235, Res 16, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 4,
Ldr 75, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1G1H1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Vanjarl Gold 440, Res 18, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 5,
Ldr 100, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: A2G1B1H2, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Dwarven Smith Gold 195, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master Smith 1, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 20,
Mag: E2?1, Wpn: Hammer
Vanadrott Gold 595, Res 19, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 5,
Ldr 150, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag: A2G2B1H2?1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Vanheim, recruitable units
Serf Warrior Gold 8, Res 6, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Huskarl Gold 25, Res 10, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Glamour, Stealth 65, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Huskarl Gold 25, Res 13, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Glamour, Stealth 65, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Hirdman Gold 30, Res 17, Rec 25
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 12, Glamour, Stealth 65, Wpn: Broad Sword
Mounted Hirdman Gold 50, Res 13, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 19, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Stealth 65, Rider 3, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin,
Mount: Fay Horse
Fay Boar Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 30 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, FS, Trample, Supply 100, Wpn: Gore
Vanhere Gold 40, Res 16, Rec 28 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 12, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Ambidex 1, Berserker +5,
Wpn: Broad Sword, Axe
Vanheim, mount stats
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn: Hoof
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn: Hoof
288
[[page 289]]
Helheim, Dusk and Death
Helheim is a land of shadows, windswept moors and silent mountains. Here lies Gnipahålan, the Stone Cave, where the
dead pass through on their way to Hel. The Hanged Kings, ancient Vanir who have hanged themselves to learn the secrets
of Death, rule the land from their thrones in Helhalla. Helheim is inhabited by Vanir, a race of tall and innately magical
beings who are able to trick mortals with their glamour. The Vanir of Helheim have sequestered themselves from the Vanir of Vanheim
and have not been part of the great war with the giants. For ages they have been guiding the dead on their way to Hel in service of a dead
god. Now a new God is arising and the old ways are changing. The Valkyries, guides of the dead, have become messengers of death and
sacred warriors of the new God. Valkyries, the female Vanir of Helheim, are able to fly, a gift from the dead god they once served. Unlike
their cousins in Vanheim, the Vanir of Helheim are not shipwrights and sailors.
Race: Flying troops, illusions, prefers Cold scale +1
Military: Vanir heavy infantry, Valkyries, Vanir cavalry
Magic: Death, Glamour, Air, Earth, some Fire
Priests: Average.
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1, Death limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Helheim, recruitable commanders
Van Scout Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 12, FS, MS, Glamour, Stealth 75, Wpn: Spear
Vanherse Gold 220, Res 13, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 20, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Rider 4, Ldr 75, MagLdr 20,
Mag: A1G1H1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Helkarl Gold 255, Res 13, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 20, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Rider 4, Ldr 100,
UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: D1G1H1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Helhestur
Vanjarl Gold 410, Res 15, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Rider 5, Ldr 100, UndLdr
50, MagLdr 30, Mag: A2D1G1H2, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Svartalf Gold 270, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 4, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 12, MS, DV 50, Ldr 20, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 30, Mag:
E2D2?1, Wpn: Hammer
Dis Gold 315, Res 19, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 12, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 20, Fly, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Rider 5, Ldr 100,
UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1D1G1H1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Disahestur
Hangadrott Gold 620, Res 19, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Rider 5, Ldr 150,
UndLdr 150, MagLdr 30, Mag: D3G2H2?1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Helhestur
Helheim, recruitable units
Serf Warrior Gold 8, Res 6, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Huskarl Gold 25, Res 10, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Glamour, Stealth 65, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Huskarl Gold 25, Res 13, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Glamour, Stealth 65, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Hirdman Gold 30, Res 17, Rec 25
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 12, Glamour, Stealth 65, Wpn: Broad Sword
Mounted Hirdman Gold 50, Res 13, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 19, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Stealth 65, Rider 3, Wpn: Light
Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
289
[[page 290]]
Valkyrie Gold 45, Res 18, Rec 29 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 28, Fly, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Wpn:
Light Lance
Helhirding Gold 60, Res 13, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 19, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Rider 3, Wpn:
Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Helhestur
Helheim, mount stats
Helhestur
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn:
Hoof
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn: Hoof
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn:
Hoof
Disahestur
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Fly, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100,
Wpn: Hoof
290
[[page 291]]
Rus, Sons of Heaven
Rus is a land of harsh winters and short summers inhabited by humans and Chudes, an exalted race of great strength and
beauty. The Chudes and the humans have intermingled and neither race dominate the other. The Rusian society is divided
into two moieties. The first is composed of hunters and nomads living in the deep forests. They worship the Bear and the
Thunder and eat their meat raw. The warriors of the wild moiety are known for their fury and battle prowess. Their most prominent
warriors are even able to take the shape of the sacred bear. The other moiety lives in houses of wood and in caves underneath the ground.
They cook their meat and practice a new kind of magic. The Chudes of the second moiety call themselves sons and daughters of gods
previously unheard of. Most of the Rusian armies are composed of human infantry, but the elites of the kingdom are mighty Chudes. Yet
the humans also field mighty warriors. The axe wielding Bear Warriors are respected and feared even by the warriors of Ulm. The peoples
of Rus prefer a cold climate.
Race: Humans and Chudes. All Rusian peoples have partial cold resistance and prefer Cold scale +2.
Military: Human infantry, hunters and berserkers, Chud warriors, sacred Chud Skinshifters.
Magic: Air, Nature, Fire, some Earth and Astral, summonable beings of Rus.
Priests: Medium, but expensive and few.
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts, temples cost 300
Rus, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 60, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short
Bow
Rusian Chieftain Gold 55, Res 17, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, CR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Rusian Chieftain Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Berserker +1, Ldr
50, Wpn: Axe, Short Bow
Rusian Priest Gold 65, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Dagger
Rusian Wizard Gold 175, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Research +2, CR +5, Ldr 20, MagLdr 40, Mag:
F1N1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Son of Heaven Gold 380, Res 5, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 160, MagLdr 40, Mag:
F1A1N1H2?1, Wpn: Battleaxe
Daughter of the Sun Gold 395, Res 5, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 4, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 120, MagLdr 50, Mag:
F2N1H1?1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Perkunu Gold 535, Res 5, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, Recup, SR +15, CR +5, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 70, Mag: A3S1N2H1, Wpn: Battleaxe
Chud Chieftain Gold 125, Res 10, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all forests)
HP 19, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Ambidex 2, CR +5,
Berserker +3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword, Axe, Javelin
Thunder Priest Gold 325, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Sacr, Research -2, CR +5, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 40, Mag: A2N1H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
291
[[page 292]]
Rus, recruitable units
Rusian Hunter Gold 10, Res 6, Rec 4 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Spear, Short Bow
Rusian Warrior Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Spear
Rusian Warrior Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Axe
Chud Warrior Gold 20, Res 12, Rec 13
HP 17, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, CR +5, Wpn: Spear
Chud Hunter Gold 25, Res 7, Rec 9 (can be recruited in the capital and all forests)
HP 17, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Berserker +2, Wpn:
Spear, Javelin
Chud Berserker Gold 35, Res 13, Rec 28
HP 17, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, Ambidex 2, CR +5, Berserker +2, Wpn: Broad
Sword, Axe
Chud Skinshifter Gold 65, Res 5, Rec 33 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, Recup, CR +5, Berserker +3, Wpn:
Battleaxe
Bear Warrior Gold 18, Res 4, Rec 13 (can be recruited in all forests)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Berserker
+3, Wpn: Axe, Axe
292
[[page 293]]
Niefelheim, Sons of Winter
Niefelheim, the Land of Eternal Frost, was once the home of the frost giants. The Rimtursar, primordial giants of godlike powers,
were the undisputed rulers of the world until a God of Thunder hunted and slew them. The giants of Jotunheim are the
descendants of the Rimtursar. From the cold glaciers in Niefelheim, frost giants have emerged anew. These Niefel Giants are not
nearly as powerful as their ancestors, but they are stronger by far than the giants of later ages. Giants are immensely strong and resilient, and the
Jotuns are even stronger and tougher than other giant races. They are almost impervious to the cold of winter, but thunder and lightning still
recognize their old quarry and the giants of the land greatly fear the wielders of lightning bolts. Niefelheim is ruled by several Jarls who rarely join
forces. Gygjas, old and wicked hags, serve the Niefel giants with sorcerous advice. The people of Niefelheim prefer to live in very cold provinces.
Race: Cold resistant, prefers Cold scale +3
Military: Niefel Giants, giant infantry and skinshifters
Magic: Water, Blood, Death, Glamour, Nature, Astral
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +2
Buildings: Giant Forts, forts reduce cold scale deaths by 2 steps
Niefelheim, recruitable commanders
Jotun Scout Gold 60, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 36, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Jotun Herse Gold 105, Res 35, Rec 1
HP 36, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Jotun Gode Gold 150, Res 19, Rec 2
HP 36, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Broad Sword
Jotun Jarl Gold 180, Res 35, Rec 1
HP 38, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Gygja Gold 300, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 38, Prot 9, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, FS, SR -5, CR +15, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 50, UndLdr 110, MagLdr
30, Mag: D1G1B1?2, Wpn: Slap, Quarterstaff
Jotun Skratti Gold 485, Res 3, Rec 4
HP 37, Prot 11, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 16, FS, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 10, UndLdr 70, MagLdr 40, Mag:
W2B2H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Niefel Jarl Gold 715, Res 49, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 75, Prot 14, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 26, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Cold pow 1, SR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 3, Chill 15, Ldr 150,
UndLdr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3D2H2?1, Wpn: Ice Blade
Niefelheim, recruitable units
Jotun Bondi Gold 20, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 31, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 19, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Jotun Warrior Gold 30, Res 15, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear
Jotun Warrior Gold 30, Res 17, Rec 17
HP 35, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Jotun Hurler Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Hand Axe, Boulder
Jotun Huskarl Gold 35, Res 21, Rec 20
HP 35, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Godihuskarl Gold 40, Res 25, Rec 24
HP 36, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Jotun Hirdman Gold 50, Res 33, Rec 31
HP 38, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Broad Sword
Niefel Giant Gold 140, Res 22, Rec 39 (terrain restrictions)
HP 69, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 25, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Cold pow 1, SR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 2, Chill 10, Wpn:
Axe
293
[[page 294]]
Muspelheim, Sons of Fire
Far away in the frozen lands of the jotuns lies a vast valley of fire and ash. This is Muspelheim, a gloomy land lit by streams
of lava. The acrid air is thick with soot and glowing embers, and the skies are dark and covered in clouds of smoke and
sulfur. From the fires of Muspelheim primordial giants once emerged and now their descendants make the valley of fire
and ash their home. The muspel giants have allied themselves with jotuns of the surrounding lands and most of the population is of jotun
stock, but in the ashen fields of Muspelheim descendants of the first fire giants still live. The jotuns in general prefer cold climates, but the
jotuns in Muspelheim are resistant to fire and do not suffer from the extreme heat of their ancestral home.
Race: Cold resistant, prefers Cold scale +2 (home province prefers Heat scale +3). Fire resistant giants in home province.
Military: Muspel Giants, giant infantry
Magic: Fire, Air, Death, Glamour, Astral, Blood and Nature
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts, capital reduces heat scale deaths by 2 steps, other forts reduce cold scale deaths by 1 step
Muspelheim, recruitable commanders
Jotun Scout Gold 60, Res 7, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear,
Javelin
Jotun Herse Gold 105, Res 35, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Jotun Gode Gold 150, Res 19, Rec 2 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn:
Broad Sword
Jotun Jarl Gold 180, Res 35, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 38, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Muspeldottir Gold 230, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 30, Prot 9, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 16, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, WS, FR +15, SR -5, Ldr 60, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 30,
Mag: F1A1D1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Gygja Gold 285, Res 3, Rec 2 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 38, Prot 9, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, FS, SR -5, CR +15, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, UndLdr
120, MagLdr 30, Mag: D1G1B1?2, Wpn: Slap, Quarterstaff
Muspel Herse Gold 180, Res 35, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 14, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 15, MM 16, WS, Sacr, FR +15, SR -5, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Broad Sword
Muspel Gode Gold 260, Res 19, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 18, WS, Sacr, FR +15, SR -5, Ldr 60, MagLdr 20, Mag:
F1H2?1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Muspelgygja Gold 355, Res 3, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 35, Prot 9, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 18, WS, FR +15, SR -5, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 70, MagLdr 60,
Mag: F2A1?2, Wpn: Slap, Fist
Muspel Jarl Gold 695, Res 28, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 67, Prot 16, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 25, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 20, WS, Sacr, Heat pow 1, FR +25, SR -5, Heat 12, Ldr
180, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: F3A1D1H2?1, Wpn: Flame Blade
294
[[page 295]]
Muspelheim, recruitable units
Jotun Bondi Gold 20, Res 15, Rec 11 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 31, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 19, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Jotun Warrior Gold 30, Res 15, Rec 17 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear
Jotun Warrior Gold 30, Res 17, Rec 17 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 35, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Jotun Hurler Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Hand Axe,
Boulder
Jotun Huskarl Gold 35, Res 21, Rec 20 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 35, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Godihuskarl Gold 40, Res 25, Rec 24 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Muspel Huskarl Gold 40, Res 25, Rec 24 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 34, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 19, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 18, WS, FR +15, SR -5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Jotun Hirdman Gold 50, Res 33, Rec 31 (can be recruited in all forts except in the capital)
HP 38, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Broad Sword
Muspel Hirdman Gold 50, Res 33, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 14, MM 16, WS, FR +15, SR -5, Wpn: Broad Sword
Muspel Giant Gold 140, Res 40, Rec 39 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 63, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 20, WS, Sacr, Heat pow 1, FR +25, SR -5, Heat 8,
Wpn: Fire Sword
295
[[page 296]]
Pelagia, Pearl Kings
Pelagia was the first kingdom to form in the deeps. It is a nation of Tritons, humanoid beings with fin-like legs. The Tritons
of the Coral Clan and the Pearl Clan have formed a kingdom and allied themselves with mermen. Under the wise rule of
the ancient Pearl Kings they dominate the oceans and harvest their riches. Pearls, corals, kelp silk and purple dyes are
traded at coastal markets in Berytos and before that in Therodos. But recently other races have been stirring in the depths and new
powers are forming. The wild beings of the kelp forests have spread, strange beings have emerged from the deepest seas, and the ghosts
of ancient Therodos are stirring. The Pearl Kings muster their forces and the Tritons of the Turtle and Shark tribes have joined forces with
the Triton kingdom. Tritons are unable to leave the sea, but mermen can shed their tails and walk on dry land to trade or wage war. The
extensive trade with Berytos has given Pelagia a much needed ally. In the few coastal cities Pelagia has built, Berytian infantry have helped
in their defense. Over time the mermen have adopted Berytian and Therodian culture and tactics. Now there are few Berytian soldiers left
in the cities and Pelagia fields its own mermen infantry. Both Tritons and mermen have mages, but only the merman mages can leave the
sea.
Race: Underwater
Military: Aquatic Tritons and amphibious mermen. Light infantry, medium infantry, sacred, aquatic infantry
Magic: Water, Astral, Nature, some Air and Earth. Mages weaker on dry land. Mages can convert water gems into astral pearls
Priests: Powerful, weak on dry land
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Pelagia, recruitable commanders
Merman Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Stealth 50, Wpn: Net, Pearl
Spear
Turtle Chief Gold 55, Res 10, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Amph, Ldr 75, Wpn: Coral Spear,
Coral Tipped Javelin
Pelagian Captain Gold 95, Res 16, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 16, MM 14, Aqua, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Ldr
100, Wpn: Pearl Spear
Merman Priest Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Amph, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Pearl Clan Priest Gold 115, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 16, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Coral
Club
Pelagian Mermage Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 10, Amph, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: W1?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Pearl Mage Gold 275, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Aqua, Ldr 10, MagLdr 70, Mag:
W2S1N1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ichtyid Pearl Mage Gold 110, Res 4, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Amph, Research -2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30,
Mag: W1S1, Wpn: Sceptre
Pearl King Gold 695, Res 8, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 45, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 25, MM 18, Sacr, Aqua, Dominion Summoner 0+
Hippocampus, Ldr 150, MagLdr 90, Mag: W4S1N1H3?1, Wpn: Bronze Trident
Pelagian Shore Commander Gold 55, Res 19, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 12, PAmph, Ldr 75, Wpn: Short Sword
Pelagian Explorer Gold 105, Res 3, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Research +2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30,
Mag: W1?1, Wpn: Instrument
296
[[page 297]]
Pelagia, recruitable units
Pelagian Militia Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 5
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Spear
Pelagian Militia Gold 8, Res 1, Rec 5
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Knife
Turtle Tribe Triton Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 18, MM 16, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Spear
Shark Tribe Triton Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 19, MM 16, Aqua, Berserker +2, Wpn: Coral Knife,
Coral Knife, Weak Bite
Pelagian Soldier Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 15, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 18, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Spear
Merman Net Thrower Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Wpn: Net, Coral Spear
Turtle Warrior Gold 11, Res 9, Rec 12 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Amph, Wpn: Coral Spear, Coral Tipped
Javelin
Coral Clan Soldier Gold 13, Res 15, Rec 16
HP 16, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 16, MM 14, Aqua, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn:
Coral Spear
Triton Rider Gold 50, Res 7, Rec 23
HP 15, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 20, MM 16, Recup, Aqua, Rider 1, Wpn: Coral Lance,
Mount: Hippocampus
Pearl Guard Gold 20, Res 23, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 16, MM 14, Sacr, Aqua, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn:
Pearl Spear
Pelagian Shore Fighter Gold 11, Res 9, Rec 12 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, PAmph, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Sideraspist Gold 13, Res 19, Rec 16 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, PAmph, Wpn: Long Spear
Pelagia, mount stats
Hippocampus
HP 25, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 30, MM 28, Recup, Aqua, Smart 100, Wpn: Alicorn, Tail Flipper
297
[[page 298]]
Oceania, Coming of the Capricorns
Everything on land has a correspondence under water. Just like kingdoms formed on dry land, so did kingdoms form in the Sea, and just like
the wild rebelled against encroaching civilization, so did the first Triton kingdom suffer the wrath of the underwater wilds. Oceania is an
underwater realm of wild half-men, animals and guardians of the kelp forests. But Oceania is also a realm of the shores, where the stormy
seas meet stable land. It is a nation of borders and transition, change and adaptability. Most of its inhabitants have the ability to change
their shapes and cross the boundaries of the sea. Sirens, Capricorns and ichtysatyrs all share the ability and affinity for change and adaptability. Sirens use it
to change their shape and lure the unwary to a watery grave. Capricorns and ichtysatyrs use it to raid and spread turmoil and chaos in coastal provinces.
With the coming of the Awakening God the Capricorns lead the half-men in conquest above as well as beneath the waves. The dominion of the God of
Oceania increases turmoil in coastal provinces.
Race: Underwater
Military: Amphibious half-men. Light infantry, medium infantry, sacred, aphroi ichtycentaurs
Magic: Nature, Water, Glamour, some Air and Earth. Mages weaker on dry land
Priests: Powerful, underwater only
Dominion: +2 turmoil in coastal provinces, +1 order in other provinces
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Growth limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts, temples cost 300
Oceania, recruitable commanders
Ichtysatyr Scout Gold 30, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtysatyr Commander Gold 60, Res 9, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 22, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtycentaur Commander Gold 125, Res 9, Rec 1
HP 20, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 25, MM 22, Recup, Amph, Ldr 100, Wpn: Bronze Lance
Siren Gold 265, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 65, Air Magic -1, Awe +3, MagLdr 40,
Mag: A1W2G2, Wpn: Fist
Aphroi Hierophant Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 26, MM 22, Sacr, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Inspirational +1, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Haliade Gold 480, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Recup, Aqua, Awe +3, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag:
W2N2H2?1, Wpn: Fist, Mount: Sacred Hippocampus
Capricorn Gold 500, Res 6, Rec 4 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 37, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Earth Magic -1, Animal Awe +3,
Gift of Water Breathing 250 size points, Ldr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: W2E1N4?1, Wpn: Bronze Trident
Aphroi Lord Gold 205, Res 17, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 26, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 21, MM 16, Sacr, Recup, Amph, Inspirational +1, Poison Barbs 5 AN
dmg, Ldr 100, Wpn: Bronze Lance
Oceania, recruitable units
Ichtysatyr Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtysatyr Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtysatyr Warrior Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 14 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 22, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtycentaur Gold 30, Res 8, Rec 17
HP 20, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 25, MM 22, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Bronze Lance
Ichtytaur Gold 40, Res 6, Rec 12
HP 30, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 17, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 21, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Berserker +3, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Aphroi Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 30 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 24, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 21, MM 16, Sacr, Recup, Amph, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn: Bronze Lance
Oceania, mount stats
Sacred Hippocampus
HP 25, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 30, MM 28, Sacr, Recup, Aqua, Smart 100, Wpn: Alicorn, Tail Flipper
298
[[page 299]]
Therodos, Telkhine Spectre
Therodos was once a kingdom of sages and craftsmen ruled by the Telkhines, sea daimones of almost godlike powers.
When the Telkhines made themselves god-kings and threatened the divine order, their entire kingdom was drowned and
cast under the waves. The people of the old kingdom suffered the full wrath of the divine judgment and unaware became
ghosts inhabiting the ruins of a sunken kingdom. Of the Telkhine kingdom only a few islands remain, inhabited by survivors of the
cataclysm. On these islands the living serve the unaware dead out of fear and respect. On the islands of the shattered kingdom also live
the Daktyloi, dwarven smiths and servants of the Telkhines. With the death of the Telkhines the Daktyloi replaced them and became
revered by the Therodian ghosts. The Daktyloi and their Hekateride sisters bring life to the remains of the ancient kingdom and prevent
the total destruction of their home. Now Therodos is a drowned kingdom of ghosts and human islanders ruled by Daktyloi master smiths.
Race: Ghosts, Kouretes and humans. Ghosts do not need supplies, can enter the sea. Kouretes can enter the sea.
Military: Spectral hoplites and infantry, kourete and human sacred war-dancers.
Magic: Nature, Water, Earth, Air, and some Fire and Death. Daktyloi are skilled mage-smiths.
Priests: Average. Can incite fury in sacred war-dancers.
Dominion: Kills population, Summons spectral troops. Death scale increases the numbers of ghosts summoned. Dominion kills population, but forts 
prevent the death of the entire population.
Scales & Blesses: Death limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Advanced Forts
Therodos, recruitable commanders
Melia Gold 225, Res 21, Rec 2 (can be recruited in the capital and all underwater and coastal forts)
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 14, Sacr, Recup, Magic, PAmph, Supply 15,
Awe +3, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: N1H1?1, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Daktyl Gold 335, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 6, MM 12, Sacr, Magic, Amph, Master Smith 1, Ldr 20,
UndLdr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag: A1W1E2?1, Wpn: Enchanted Hammer
Hekateride Gold 530, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Recup, Magic, Amph, Supply 30, Awe
+6, Inspirational +2, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 110, Mag: W2N3H2?1, Wpn: Fist
Therodian Scout Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 55, Wpn: Dagger, Short
Bow
Therodian Commander Gold 55, Res 31, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 12, Ldr 75, Wpn: Long Spear
Kabeiros Gold 175, Res 3, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Forge Bonus 1, Resource Bonus 5, Ldr
10, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1?1, Wpn: Hammer
Therodos, recruitable units
Kourete Gold 28, Res 23, Rec 36 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Magic, PAmph, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Therodian Archer Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Therodian Peltast Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Therodian Hoplite Gold 10, Res 31, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 12, Wpn: Long Spear
Korybant Gold 20, Res 23, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Short Sword
299
[[page 300]]
Atlantis, Emergence of the Deep Ones
For centuries the seas have been the domain of the Tritons, but recently a nation of beings resembling a cross between fish, frog and
human has emerged in the deepest gorges of the oceans. The race is not entirely unknown, for there are a few of them who have made
shallow coastal reefs their home, but the Triton Kings never imagined that they were numerous or powerful enough to form a nation.
These Atlantians of the deeps never stop growing and will live for several hundred years unless killed. The Atlantian society is organized in
a strict hierarchy of size and age. The oldest and most cunning Atlantians have made themselves kings and queens of the Basalt City in the deepest reaches
of the ocean. The Atlantians of the Deeps use weapons of enchanted basalt made by the Basalt Kings.
Race: Amphibious
Military: Light infantry, shamblers, no missile weapons
Magic: Earth, Water, Fire, some Astral
Priests: Powerful
Buildings: Advanced Forts
Atlantis, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Shambler Chief Gold 70, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 22, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn: Coral Club
Coral Commander Gold 110, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 25, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Ldr 100, Wpn: Coral Glaive
Coral Priest Gold 65, Res 3, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Coral Knife
Mother of the Deep Gold 135, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 22, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Mace
Mage of the Deep Gold 300, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 20, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Gift of Water Breathing 15 size points, Ldr 20, MagLdr
40, Mag: W2?2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Basalt Queen Gold 470, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 48, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 16, Str 20, Att 12, Def 5, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Sacr, Amph, FR +5, CR +5, Fear +5, DV 100, Ldr 200, Mag: H3, Wpn:
Basalt Club, Bite
Basalt King Gold 620, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 51, Prot 16, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 20, Sacr, Amph, FR +5, CR +5, Fear +5, DV 100, Resource Bonus 10,
Ldr 20, MagLdr 70, Mag: F1W2E3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Atlantis, recruitable units
Atlantian Spearman Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
Reef Dweller Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn: Coral Spear
Deep One Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 4, MR 7, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, FR +5, CR +5, DV 100, Wpn: Claw, Bite
Deep One Spearman Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 4, MR 7, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, FR +5, CR +5, DV 100, Wpn: Basalt Spear, Bite
Shambler Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 25
HP 22, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Shambler of the Deep Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 25
HP 26, Prot 9, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Amph, FR +5, CR +5, DV 100, Wpn: Claw, Claw, Bite
War Shambler Gold 25, Res 6, Rec 30
HP 22, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
Warrior of the Deep Gold 25, Res 10, Rec 30
HP 27, Prot 9, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 17, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, FR +5, CR +5, DV 100, Wpn: Basalt Spear, Bite
Coral Guard Gold 30, Res 23, Rec 39
HP 24, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn: Coral Glaive
Living Pillar Gold 35, Res 50, Rec 35 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 31, Prot 21, MR 9, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 11, Def 5, Prec 8, Enc 10, CS 5, MM 10, Sacr, Amph, FR +5, CR +5, DV 100, Wpn: Basalt Spear, Bite
300
[[page 301]]
R'lyeh, Time of Aboleths
In the deepest of oceans lives the strange fishlike race called the Aboleths. These beings are highly intelligent and the older
Aboleths called Mind Lords can enslave lesser beings by force of mind alone. Having this power means they have enslaved
mermen and Deep Ones to do the daily work and to fill up the ranks of their armies. In a deep gorge the enslaved workers
have built a score of small but magnificent cities for their rulers. In this gorge live the greatest of the Aboleths.
Race: Underwater
Military: Atlantian and Oceanian slaves, Aboleths
Magic: Astral, Water, some Death, Earth, Glamour and Nature
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
R'lyeh, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Knife
Slave Prince Gold 110, Res 43, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 21, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Amph, TM +1, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn: Meteorite
Trident
Slave Priest Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Amph, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Slave Mage Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 16, Amph, Ldr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag: W2S1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Aboleth Gold 300, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 54, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 6, MM 14, Magic, Aqua, TM +2, SpSi, Void Sanity 5, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 230, Mag: W2S2?1, Wpn: Life Drain, Life Drain, Mind Blast
Grandmother Gold 400, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 104, Prot 8, MR 20, Mor 30, Str 16, Att 5, Def 5, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Magic, Aqua, NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, Void Sanity
10, Paralyzing Explosion on Death, Dominion Summoner 1+ Polypal Spawns, Ldr 10, MagLdr 120, Mag: S1H3, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind
Blast, Mind Blast
Abodai Gold 375, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 50, Prot 4, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 6, MM 14, Sacr, Magic, Aqua, TM +2, SpSi, Void Sanity 5, Ldr
10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 210, Mag: W1S2D1H1?1, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast, Theft of Life
Mind Lord Gold 530, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 84, Prot 3, MR 20, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 6, MM 16, Magic, Aqua, TM +3, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 250, Mag: W3S3?1, Wpn: Soul Leech, Enslave Mind
Polypal Mother Gold 150, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort seas)
HP 30, Prot 6, MR 20, Mor 30, Str 11, Att 5, Def 5, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Magic, Aqua, NNEat, BlR, PiR, PR +15, SpSi, Void
Sanity 10, Paralyzing Explosion on Death, Dominion Summoner 1+ Polypal Spawns, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Life Drain,
Mind Blast, Mind Blast
Androdai Gold 265, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 7, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Amph, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
S1H1?1, Wpn: Life Drain
301
[[page 302]]
R'lyeh, recruitable units
Lobo Guard Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 14, Magic, Mind, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Claw
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Wpn: Net, Stone Spear
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 6
HP 15, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 16, Aqua, Wpn: Stone Spear
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 6
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 21, MM 16, Amph, Wpn: Stone Spear
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 6
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Shambler Thrall Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 22
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 4, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Claw
Giboleth Gold 40, Res 1, Rec 41
HP 21, Prot 8, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 14, Magic, Aqua, SpSi, Void Sanity 5, Wpn: Tentacle,
Tentacle, Mind Blast
Gibodai Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 41 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 14, Sacr, Magic, Aqua, SpSi, Void Sanity 5, Wpn: Life
Drain, Mind Blast
Androleth Gold 50, Res 16, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 14, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 14, Magic, Amph, SpSi, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Tentacle, Mind
Blast
302
[[page 303]]
Arcoscephale, The Old Kingdom
Arcoscephale is an old kingdom. Although its glory days are long past, the ancient Astrologers who aided past kings in
building Arcoscephale into a mighty empire have recently emerged from their centuries-old seclusion, to restore the Old
Kingdom to world domination once more. Priestesses with great knowledge of healing are trained in ancient temples built
during the peak of the Old Kingdom. The priestesses are able to scry upon enemy troops and provinces that are located within the God's
Dominion. The war machine of ancient Arcoscephale has not changed over the past centuries. Cumbersome plate hauberks and long
spears are still used and the cavalry is primitive. Elephants and chariots, unpredictable but devastating, are still popular.
Race: Humans
Military: Heavy spear-armed infantry, elephants, chariots
Magic: Astral, Fire, Earth, Water, some Nature
Priests: Average, healing
Dominion: Scry (accurate and automatic military reports inside dominion)
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, labs cost 300
Arcoscephale, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Short Bow
Mounted Commander Gold 70, Res 9, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword, Mount: Riding
Horse
Hypaspist Commander Gold 95, Res 25, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 100, Wpn: Spear
Hoplite Commander Gold 105, Res 31, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 14, Ldr 100, Wpn: Long Spear
Strategos Gold 150, Res 30, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 10, Ldr 150, Wpn: Short Sword
Hiereia Gold 155, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Healing 1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: N1H1,
Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Mystic Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Research +1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: S1?2,
Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Archousa Gold 235, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Healing 3, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: N1H2,
Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Astrologer Gold 270, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80, Mag:
S3?1, Wpn: Dagger
Arcoscephale, recruitable units
Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Cardaces Gold 10, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Peltast Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Hoplite Gold 13, Res 31, Rec 16
HP 11, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 14, Wpn: Long Spear
Hypaspist Gold 16, Res 25, Rec 23
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 16, Wpn: Spear
303
[[page 304]]
Charioteer Gold 40, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Mount: Chariot, Corider: Chariot
Archer
Elephant Rider Gold 100, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Small Hammer, Mount: War Elephant,
Coriders: 2 * Elephant Archers
Heart Companion Gold 20, Res 31, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 8, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Long Spear
Arcoscephale, mount stats
Riding Horse
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 7, Str 13, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
War Elephant
HP 64, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn: Tusk
Chariot
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 20, MM 20, Trample, Wpn: Hoof
304
[[page 305]]
Phlegra, Deformed Giants
Phlegra is a kingdom of giants who have enslaved the much more numerous human population. The Gigantes of Phlegra are the
descendants of the Gigantes of Mekone, who made war upon the gods of men. Punished for their sins the descendants of Mekone
no longer appear as proud hoplites in gleaming armor, instead they are deformed and cursed with a violent temper. Since the fall
of Mekone, the Gigantes resent pretending gods and religious faiths, and only the human population of the kingdom devote themselves to the
awakening God. Phlegra is also the home of the sheep-herding Cyclopes, another tribe of giants. Like their predecessors the Gigantes of Phlegra
have enslaved their neighbors and formed a kingdom under the rule of their Tyrants. Unscrupulous human mages have developed ways to serve
the Tyrants by dominating less fortunate magically adept humans. Now human taskmasters and oppressors cause more fear in the populace than
the Tyrants themselves.
Race: Humans, Cyclopes and Gigantes.
Military: Few Gigante Warriors. Mostly human slave soldiers. No sacred troops
Magic: Fire, Earth, and some Water, Death and Nature. Arcane Slave Communions. Cyclops smiths
Priests: Weak and few
Dominion: Increases unrest
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts
Phlegra, recruitable commanders
Cyclops Chieftain Gold 75, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 47, Prot 12, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, TM +1, Ldr 20, Wpn: Great Club
Trophimos Commander Gold 105, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, TM +2, Ldr 100, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Shackled Mage Gold 95, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 6, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Research -2, MagLdr 10, Mag: ?1, Wpn: Fist
Cyclops Shepherd Shaman Gold 100, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 47, Prot 9, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, Research -3, Ldr 35, MagLdr 10, Mag: N1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Trophimos Priest Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Research +2, TM +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag:
H1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Trophimos Sage Gold 160, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Research +2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: ?2, Wpn:
Dagger
Trophimos Oppressor Gold 160, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, TM +2, Ldr 60, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1E1?1, Wpn: Fist
Phlegran Tyrant Gold 445, Res 38, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 68, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 26, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 22, Research -6, Aff Res 3, FR +5, PR +5, TM +4,
Berserker +4, Ldr 120, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: F3E2D1?1, Wpn: Golden Spear
Elder Cyclops Gold 465, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 63, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 26, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, MS, Master Smith 1, FR +15, Resource Bonus 25,
Ldr 70, MagLdr 60, Mag: F2A1E2?1, Wpn: Maul
Phlegra, recruitable units
Helote Archer Gold 8, Res 6, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 6, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Helote Warrior Gold 8, Res 10, Rec 4 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Helote Soldier Gold 8, Res 17, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 12, Wpn: Long Spear
Cyclops Warrior Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 7
HP 42, Prot 9, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, Wpn: Great Club
Cyclops Hurler Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 7
HP 42, Prot 9, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Club, Boulder
Gigante Warrior Gold 65, Res 19, Rec 44 (max 2/month)
HP 62, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 20, Aff Res 2, FR +5, PR +5, Berserker +2, Wpn: Spear
305
[[page 306]]
Pangaea, Age of Bronze
Pangaea is a woodland nation inhabited by wild beings connected with nature. Halfmen such as satyrs, centaurs and
minotaurs serve the lords of the Sacred Groves deep in the forests. In ancient times, the woods covered much of the world,
but that has changed. Man is no longer beast and animals are no longer wild. The world of the wild is disappearing.
Centaurs have developed civilized societies and donned armor. The Panii, guardians of the Groves, have decided that it is time to act to
preserve their dwindling habitat.
Race: Forest beings, stealthy troops, troops will heal battle afflictions
Military: Satyr and minotaur infantry, centaur cataphracts, warriors and archers
Magic: Magical Tunes, Nature, Earth, Blood, some Water and Glamour
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Growth limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts, temples cost 300 in forests
Pangaea, recruitable commanders
Black Harpy Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 60, Ldr 10, Wpn: Talons,
Talons
Satyr Commander Gold 60, Res 23, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 16, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Bronze Spear
Minotaur Lord Gold 95, Res 31, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 8, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +4, Ldr
75, Wpn: Bronze Battleaxe
Centaur Commander Gold 105, Res 32, Rec 1
HP 22, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 19, MM 16, FS, Recup, Inspirational -1, Ldr 100,
Wpn: Bronze Lance, Hoof
Centaur Hierophant Gold 170, Res 4, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 30, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40,
Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze Dagger, Long Bow
Centauride Hierophantide Gold 170, Res 3, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 32, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40,
Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze Dagger, Short Bow
Dryad Gold 310, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 65, Awe +3,
Seduction , Ldr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: N1H2?1, Wpn: Hoof
Pan Gold 425, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 27, Prot 7, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 2, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Animal Awe +3, Ldr
100, MagLdr 60, Mag: E2N3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Pandemoniac Gold 355, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 27, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Ldr 100, UndLdr
20, MagLdr 50, Mag: N3B2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
306
[[page 307]]
Pangaea, recruitable units
Harpy Gold 7, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Talons, Talons
Satyr Sneak Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 60, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Satyr Gold 9, Res 4, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Javelin
Satyr Gold 9, Res 4, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Satyr Hoplite Gold 14, Res 24, Rec 24
HP 14, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Recup, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Reveler Gold 16, Res 3, Rec 14
HP 15, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +3, Wpn:
Bronze Spear, Hoof
Centaur Gold 25, Res 4, Rec 12 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 30, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze
Dagger, Long Bow
Centauride Gold 25, Res 3, Rec 12 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 32, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze
Dagger, Short Bow
Centauride Warrior Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17
HP 18, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 31, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Hoof, Javelin
Centauride Cataphract Gold 30, Res 28, Rec 17
HP 18, Prot 15, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 27, MM 16, FS, Recup, Wpn: Bronze Lance, Hoof,
Javelin
Centaur Cataphract Gold 35, Res 32, Rec 21
HP 22, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 19, MM 16, FS, Recup, Wpn: Bronze Lance, Hoof
Centaur Warrior Gold 35, Res 11, Rec 21
HP 22, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 29, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +2, Wpn:
Bronze Lance, Hoof
Minotaur Gold 40, Res 6, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 25, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +4, Wpn:
Bronze Battleaxe
War Minotaur Gold 50, Res 23, Rec 18
HP 25, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +4, Wpn:
Bronze Battleaxe
White Centaur Gold 55, Res 12, Rec 29 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 29, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +3,
Wpn: Bronze Lance, Hoof, Javelin
307
[[page 308]]
Asphodel, Carrion Woods
Asphodel was once part of Pangaea, a woodland nation inhabited by wild beings connected with nature. Halfmen such as
satyrs, centaurs and minotaurs serve the lords of the Sacred Groves deep in the forests. In ancient times, the woods
covered much of the world, but that has changed. Man is no longer beast and animals are no longer wild. The world of the
wild is disappearing. In response to the destruction of the wild forests a dark and hungry God has arisen. The Panii of the sacred groves
could not prevent the destruction of the wilderness and a few of them have revolted and struck back with dark fury upon the civilized
world. The Panic Apostates and their followers have been touched by the Dark God and their hides are colored as black as the mood of the
vengeful forest. But victory comes at a price. Halfmen as well as civilized men succumb to the Curse of the Carrion Woods. Asphodel is
slowly turning into a cursed forest realm haunted by living carrion.
Race: Forest beings and reanimated carrion beings, stealthy troops, troops will heal battle afflictions, undead carrion beasts
Military: Satyr and minotaur infantry, centaur warriors and archers, harpies, hordes of manikins and carrion beasts.
Magic: Nature, Death, some Glamour, Earth and Water.
Priests: Average. Undead priests can reanimate carrions.
Dominion: Reanimates the unburied dead as manikins. Carrion beasts everywhere but more in forests. Temples and a growth scale increase reanimation 
rates. Magic scale increases the chance of better reanimations. Dominion kills population.
Scales & Blesses: Growth limit +2, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Very Primitive Forts (50% more expensive), temples cost 300 in forests, temples produce nature gems, labs cost 300 in forests
Asphodel, recruitable commanders
Black Harpy Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 60, Ldr 10, Wpn: Talons,
Talons
Satyr Commander Gold 60, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Bronze Spear
Minotaur Lord Gold 95, Res 7, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 29, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +5, Ldr 75,
Wpn: Bronze Battleaxe
Centaur Hierophant Gold 170, Res 4, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 30, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40,
Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze Dagger, Long Bow
Centauride Hierophantide Gold 170, Res 3, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 32, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40,
Inspirational +1, Ldr 50, UndLdr 60, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze Dagger, Short Bow
Black Dryad Gold 215, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 60, Ldr 50,
UndLdr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag: D1N1G1H2, Wpn: Hoof
Dryad Hag Gold 370, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 15, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 60, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: D1N2G1H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Hoof
Panic Apostate Gold 420, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 27, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Animal Awe +1, Ldr
100, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 40, Mag: D2N3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
308
[[page 309]]
Asphodel, recruitable units
Harpy Gold 7, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Talons, Talons
Satyr Sneak Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 60, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Satyr Gold 9, Res 4, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Javelin
Satyr Warrior Gold 13, Res 5, Rec 21
HP 14, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 18, FS, Recup, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Centaur Gold 25, Res 4, Rec 12 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 30, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze
Dagger, Long Bow
Centauride Gold 25, Res 3, Rec 12 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 32, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof, Bronze
Dagger, Short Bow
Centauride Warrior Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17
HP 18, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 31, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Hoof, Javelin
Centaur Warrior Gold 35, Res 11, Rec 21
HP 22, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 29, MM 22, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +3, Wpn:
Bronze Lance, Hoof
Minotaur Gold 40, Res 6, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 25, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +4, Wpn: Bronze
Battleaxe
Minotaur Warrior Gold 50, Res 7, Rec 18
HP 27, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +5, Wpn: Bronze
Battleaxe
Black Centaur Gold 55, Res 12, Rec 29 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 29, MM 22, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40, Berserker +4,
Wpn: Bronze Lance, Hoof, Javelin
Black Minotaur Gold 70, Res 6, Rec 20 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 30, Prot 9, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 18, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Recup, Trample, Berserker +5, Wpn:
Bronze Battleaxe
309
[[page 310]]
Ermor, Ashen Empire
Ermor was once a great empire that had conquered most of the known world. The realm crumbled as the great mages of
the Empire studied dark magic under the Sauromancers of C'tis. Unaware of the dangers of dark sorcery, priests
performed unholy rites in the capital city of Eldregate. But there were voices who demanded the foul practices to stop.
Theurgs and Thaumaturgs foresaw the cataclysm and advised generals, governors and consuls to revolt. When the Apostate Emperor
marched on Ermor itself, the Augurs and Bishops of the Empire were forced to act in concert. In one cataclysmic event, Death was let loose
and the empire was shattered. The Cataclysm attracted attention from an earlier God, a dark and hungry God. The vast power of this
Awakening God erased the boundaries between the land of the living and the land of the dead. Ermor is now a cursed land of ashes and
darkness where nothing grows. The bones of long-dead inhabitants reassemble to form legions of undead under the leadership of the
cursed priests of the old Ermorian faith. Undead legions march forth to reconquer a world once theirs. The Ermorian Dominion reanimates
the dead without the aid of unholy priests. It also destroys the land, turning crops and forests into ashes and people and livestock to bones.
The Pretender God of Ermor will also be able to sense where any corpses are in provinces under his Dominion.
Race: Undead. Do not need supplies, can enter water, are unbreakable and can walk day and night. Do not recruit regular armies, but summons or 
reanimates undead.
Military: Undead legionnaires, wailing ladies, unholy knights and hordes of the newly dead.
Magic: Death, some Fire, Astral and Elements
Priests: Powerful. All priests can reanimate the dead.
Dominion: Reanimates the dead. Kills population, senses corpses.
Scales & Blesses: Death limit +2, Misfortune limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Fortified City, temples produce death gems
310
[[page 311]]
Sceleria, The Reformed Empire
Sceleria is a splinter empire of the great Empire of Ermor. As dark arts were practiced in the heart of the Empire, a new
order of Thaumaturgs emerged. Guided by the stars and the knowledge of the Underworld, they foresaw the Cataclysm
that would destroy the empire and led the emperor's twin brother in rebellion. The great empire was torn apart in a civil
war that ended with the siege of Ermor. In desperation the Augurs and Bishops let Death loose, and everything went still. The great city of
Eldregate and everything within leagues became an ashen waste. Ermor was no more, and the provinces of the old empire formed into
new kingdoms and lesser empires. The twin brother of the last Ermorian emperor claimed the imperial crown. With the aid of the
Thaumaturgs he reformed the empire and built a new capital named to always be a reminder of the wickedness that brought the great
empire down. Now Sceleria is an empire permeated with the Death Cult of the Thaumaturgs. While the young kingdom of Marignon uses
fire and faith to hold Death at bay, Sceleria trusts in the Laws of Death itself to persevere. The Thaumaturgs of Sceleria regard themselves
as defenders of the living world and the last hope for mankind. With litanies and masses for the dead, they prevent the spread of the
shadow by reanimating the dead under strict control. Now the dead serve the living and fight their wars. The war machine of Sceleria is
based on the old legionnaire army of Ermor with the added might of the walking dead.
Race: Men and undead. Undead do not need supplies, can enter water, are unbreakable and can walk day and night.
Military: Human legionnaires and undead hordes of lesser quality.
Magic: Astral, Death, some Water and Air
Priests: National priests can reanimate the dead
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Death limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Fortified City
Sceleria, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Assassin Gold 80, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 65, Ambidex 2, Assassin, Patience +1,
Wpn: Short Sword, Poison Dagger
Centurion Gold 95, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Ldr 100, Wpn: Short Sword
Legatus Legionis Gold 150, Res 21, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Ldr 150, Wpn: Short Sword
Scelerian Cultist Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 30, Mag: H1, Wpn: Dagger
Thaumaturg Gold 155, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 90, MagLdr 20, Mag:
S1D1H2, Wpn: Dagger
Censor Gold 125, Res 29, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Sacr, Patrol 10, Ldr 50, UndLdr 100, Wpn:
Lictor Axe
Grand Thaumaturg Gold 435, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 160, MagLdr 60, Mag:
S2D2H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
311
[[page 312]]
Sceleria, recruitable units
Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Retiarius Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Net, Trident
Gladiator Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Flail
Velite Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Alae Legionnaire Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Hastatus Gold 11, Res 21, Rec 12
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Principe Gold 14, Res 21, Rec 20
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Triarius Gold 15, Res 29, Rec 25
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 11, CS 6, MM 12, Wpn: Long Spear
Praetorian Guard Gold 20, Res 30, Rec 35
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 10, CS 6, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword
Standard Gold 20, Res 21, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Lictor Gold 26, Res 29, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Sacr, Patrol 2, Wpn: Lictor Axe
Shadow Vestal Gold 45, Res 6, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 22, Eth, Sacr, Und, NNEat, Stealth 40, SpSi, Wpn:
Shadow Spear
312
[[page 313]]
Pythium, Emerald Empire
The Emerald Empire of Pythium is a splinter empire of the great Empire of Ermor. As dark arts were practiced in the heart
of the Empire, the stars warned the Theurgs of Pythia to flee the impending doom. They led Pythia away from the falling
Empire and formed an imperial theocracy under their wise rule. But this was not enough to save them. As Ermor crumbled,
the provinces of Pythium rebelled and broke away from their old masters. The Emperor of Pythium could not reclaim the rebelling lands
and the power of the Emerald Empire diminished over the centuries. The war machine of Pythium is based on the old legionnaire army of
Ermor with some minor modifications. During Ermorian times, part of the Pythian lands were under the sway of the Sauromatian tribes.
The Androphags used hydras of the Pythian Marshes in warfare. For a long time hydras were only used in the Pythian arenas, but now the
old practice has been adopted along with the usage of serpent mounts.
Race: Humans
Military: Legionnaires, serpent cataphracts, gladiators, hydras
Magic: Astral, Air, Water, some Fire. High magic gem income.
Priests: Powerful
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Fortified City
Pythium, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Assassin Gold 80, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 65, Ambidex 2, Assassin, Patience +1,
Wpn: Short Sword, Poison Dagger
Centurion Gold 95, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Ldr 100, Wpn: Short Sword
Serpent Lord Gold 100, Res 27, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, Rider 2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount:
Armored Serpent
Emerald Lord Gold 125, Res 30, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 16, Str 13, Att 15, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 16, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Legatus Legionis Gold 150, Res 21, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Ldr 150, Wpn: Short Sword
Battle Deacon Gold 90, Res 19, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Mace
Theurg Acolyte Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: S1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Theurg Gold 300, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag:
A1W1S2H2, Wpn: Mace
Hydra Tamer Gold 35, Res 10, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 16, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, SS, PR +15, Ldr 10, Wpn: Net, Trident
Arch Theurg Gold 565, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Sacr, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 20, MagLdr 100, Mag:
A2W1S3H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
313
[[page 314]]
Pythium, recruitable units
Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Retiarius Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Net, Trident
Gladiator Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Flail
Velite Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Alae Legionnaire Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Hastatus Gold 11, Res 21, Rec 12
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Principe Gold 14, Res 21, Rec 20
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Triarius Gold 15, Res 29, Rec 25
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 10, CS 6, MM 14, Wpn: Long Spear
Emerald Guard Gold 20, Res 30, Rec 31
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 16, Wpn: Broad Sword
Standard Gold 20, Res 21, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Hydra Hatchling Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 15 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 25, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, SS, Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR +25,
Wpn: Lesser Heads, Great Head
Serpent Cataphract Gold 45, Res 27, Rec 21
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Rider 1, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount:
Armored Serpent
Hydra Gold 200, Res 1, Rec 50 (max 1/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 80, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, SS, Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR
+25, Fear +5, Wpn: Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Great Head
Battle Vestal Gold 15, Res 4, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 20, Sacr, Wpn: Spear
Theurg Communicant Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 31 (max 1/month)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Fist
Pythium, mount stats
Armored Serpent
HP 28, Prot 19, MR 5, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 16, SS, PR +5, Smart 75, Wpn: Poisonous Bite
314
[[page 315]]
Man, Tower of Avalon
The realm of Man is a feudal kingdom. Their kingdom was established by conquering a race of tall and magically powerful
beings known as the Tuatha. When the Tuatha were destroyed, their greatest treasure was found: the magical Forest of
Avalon. Hidden deep within was great magic. The Witches of Man entered the forest, learned the old lore, and helped Man
to grow in power and influence. The infantry of Man is limited and lacks heavy troops. Their regular armies most often consist of powerful
knights and skilled longbowmen. The Witches train their own special troops, the Wardens and Knights of Avalon. These troops are very
skilled and are also magically enchanted by the Witches. The monks who serve the God of Man are divinely inspired scholars who gather
and record knowledge in the monasteries scattered throughout the land. Descendants of the Logrian people displaced by the Witches and
their servants dwell outside the fortified castles of the nobility.
Race: Humans
Military: Infantry, longbowmen, knights, special troops of Avalon
Magic: Nature, Glamour, some Water, Earth, Air and Fire
Priests: Weak, divinely inspired researchers.
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 300
Man, recruitable commanders
Royal Forester Gold 55, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Stealth 55, Ambidex 1, Patrol 5,
Ldr 10, Wpn: Axe, Axe, Short Bow
Castellan Gold 95, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Monk Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Stealth 40, Mundane Researcher,
Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Bard Gold 105, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Stealth 50, Spy, Spell Singer,
Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: G1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Daughter of Avalon Gold 120, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Spell Singer, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20,
Mag: N1G1, Wpn: Dagger
Mother of Avalon Gold 305, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Spell Singer, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 40, Mag: N1G1H1?2, Wpn: Dagger
Lord Warden Gold 170, Res 29, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 16, Str 14, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Ambidex 2,
TrSi, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword, Broad Sword
Knight Commander of Avalon Gold 210, Res 32, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 18, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Recup, PR +5, Rider 4,
Ldr 100, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Armored Unicorn
Crone of Avalon Gold 465, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Sacr, Spell Singer, Ldr 10, MagLdr 60,
Mag: N3G2H1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Logrian Wise Man Gold 125, Res 7, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Research -4, Ldr 20, MagLdr 20,
Mag: E1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
315
[[page 316]]
Man, recruitable units
Logrian Slinger Gold 9, Res 8, Rec 6 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Axe, Sling
Longbowman Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 13
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Short Sword, Long Bow
Spearman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 18, Wpn: Spear
Longspear Gold 10, Res 13, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, Wpn: Long Spear
Logrian Warrior Gold 12, Res 15, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Tower Guard Gold 12, Res 18, Rec 14
HP 11, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, Wpn: Broad Sword
Forester Gold 12, Res 7, Rec 14 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Stealth 55, Ambidex 1, Patrol 1, Wpn: Axe,
Dagger, Short Bow
Landless Knight Gold 13, Res 24, Rec 16
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword
Logrian Cavalry Gold 30, Res 13, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Rider 1, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: War Horse
Knight of Man Gold 45, Res 32, Rec 25
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount:
Destrier
Warden of Avalon Gold 26, Res 28, Rec 33 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, TrSi, Wpn: Great Sword
Knight of Avalon Gold 90, Res 32, Rec 35 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Recup, PR +5, Rider 3, Wpn: Lance,
Broad Sword, Mount: Armored Unicorn
Man, mount stats
Destrier
HP 22, Prot 20, MR 5, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Wpn: Hoof
Armored Unicorn
HP 27, Prot 21, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 28, MM 26, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 40, PR +10, TrSi, Smart
100, Wpn: Alicorn, Hoof
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
316
[[page 317]]
Eriu, Last of the Tuatha
When men came to the land of the Tuatha and the Fir Bolg, there was a drawn out battle which ended with the defeat and
total withdrawal of the Tuatha. The Land of the Ever Young was forever lost to this world and Avalon was taken by the
Witches of Man. The Sidhe, descendants of the Tuatha, retreated into strange twilight realms with entrances hidden in
ancient mounds. The land of the Fir Bolg was split by the invading forces: Man and their Witches, and the Milesians. The Milesians named
their land Eriu. Most of the Eriu population is composed of humans of Milesian ancestry, but a few Fir Bolg still survive in remote villages.
With the coming of the New God, the Daoine Sidhe have re-emerged from their magical mounds to lead the Milesians. Eriu is now a nation
of humans and Fir Bolg led by the awakening Sidhe.
Race: Milesian humans and Fir Bolg ruled by Sidhe and Tuatha, illusions
Military: Milesian infantry, Fir Bolg infantry, sacred Sidhe infantry
Magic: Glamour, Air, Nature, Water, Earth, some Fire
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Luck limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 300
Eriu, recruitable commanders
Milesian Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Milesian Champion Gold 55, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Milesian Monk Gold 45, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Bard Gold 105, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Stealth 50, Spy, Spell Singer, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 10, Mag: G1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Milesian Mage Gold 160, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: A1E1?1, Wpn: Fist
Sidhe Champion Gold 225, Res 19, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 10, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Ldr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag: N1G1H1, Wpn: Golden Sword, Javelin
Bean Sidhe Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: W1N1G1?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Sidhe Lord Gold 375, Res 16, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 15, Def 21, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Rider 4, Ldr 100, MagLdr 30, Mag: N1G2H2, Wpn: Golden Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Fir Bolg Champion Gold 70, Res 12, Rec 1 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, MS, Stealth 40, Berserker +3, Ldr 75, Wpn:
Bronze Sword, Javelin
Fir Bolg Druid Gold 95, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Tuatha Gold 630, Res 22, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 15, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Rider 5, Ldr 150, MagLdr 60, Mag: N2G3H2?1, Wpn: Golden Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
317
[[page 318]]
Eriu, recruitable units
Milesian Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Milesian Spearman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 11
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Spear
Milesian Longspear Gold 10, Res 13, Rec 11
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Long Spear
Milesian Swordsman Gold 10, Res 18, Rec 11
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword
Fir Bolg Slinger Gold 12, Res 2, Rec 14 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Dagger, Sling
Milesian Man at Arms Gold 14, Res 24, Rec 20
HP 11, Prot 16, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword
Fir Bolg Clan Warrior Gold 15, Res 10, Rec 18 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Axe
Fir Bolg Clan Warrior Gold 15, Res 10, Rec 18 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Fir Bolg Cattle Raider Gold 19, Res 9, Rec 25 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 15, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Stealth 40, Berserker +2, Wpn: Bronze
Battleaxe
Fir Bolg Charioteer Gold 35, Res 12, Rec 23 (can be recruited in the capital, as well as highland and mountain forts)
HP 14, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Javelin, Mount:
Chariot
Daoine Sidhe Gold 35, Res 12, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Eriu, mount stats
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn:
Hoof
Chariot
HP 20, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 20, MM 20, Trample, Wpn: Hoof
318
[[page 319]]
Agartha, Golem Cult
In dark caverns under the Roots of the Earth a strange kind of one-eyed humanoids has evolved. Untouched by the sun,
they have become known to humans as the Pale Ones. When humans first met these pale giants, it was in war. With the
destruction of the false god of the Pale Ones, an ancient Seal was broken and vast powers of destruction were released.
The Pale Ones were almost wiped out of existence and humans could move down into the caverns of Agartha. Here they found fabulous
riches and ancient secrets. The humans replaced the Pale Ones and now most of Agartha's inhabitants are pale-skinned humans with large
eyes. Everything left by the Ancient Ones has become subject to worship by the humans. Ancient statues are enchanted and given life by
Golem Crafters, priest-mages of the Agarthan Golem Cult. A few surviving Oracles lead the Cult and keep the memories of past ages alive.
Race: Humans and Pale Ones. Darkvision. Poor amphibians. Extra gold and resources in cave forts.
Military: Light and heavy infantry, huge and sacred Ancient Ones, troglodyte slaves.
Magic: Earth, some Fire, Water and Death.
Priests: Powerful
Dominion: Constructs receive increased HP inside dominion
Scales & Blesses: Bless points +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Agartha, recruitable commanders
Agarthan Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Dagger,
Short Bow
Troglodyte Trainer Gold 60, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Ambidex 2, TM +2, DV 50, Ldr 20, Wpn:
Whip, Short Sword
Pale One Captain Gold 65, Res 18, Rec 1 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 22, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, Amph, NNEat, Inspirational +1, DV 100,
Siege Strength +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Spear
Cave Captain Gold 95, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn: Short Sword
Attendant of the Oracles Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Dagger
Earth Reader Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 20, Mag: E1H1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Golem Crafter Gold 295, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 60, MagLdr 50, Mag:
F1W1E2H1, Wpn: Maul
Ancient Lord Gold 175, Res 23, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 44, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, Inspirational +1, DV
100, Siege Strength +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Battleaxe
Oracle of the Ancients Gold 540, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 40, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, Inspirational +1, DV
100, Siege Strength +5, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 110, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: E3D1H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Wet One Captain Gold 50, Res 6, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 12, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2,
Ldr 75, Wpn: Bone Trident
319
[[page 320]]
Agartha, recruitable units
Pale One Soldier Gold 9, Res 14, Rec 18 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2,
Wpn: Spear
Wet One Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 18 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 18, Prot 2, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2,
Wpn: Stone Spear
Agarthan Heavy Infantry Gold 10, Res 27, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Agarthan Infantry Gold 10, Res 22, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Agarthan Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Defender of the Halls Gold 13, Res 23, Rec 26
HP 20, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 9, Def 13, Prec 7, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 10, PAmph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2,
Wpn: Short Sword
Troglodyte Slave Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 40
HP 37, Prot 7, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 23, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 16, MM 18, Trample, DV 100, Wpn: Claws
Ancient One Gold 40, Res 27, Rec 32 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 40, Prot 15, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege
Strength +5, Wpn: Spear, Throw Rocks
Ancient Stone Hurler Gold 40, Res 13, Rec 32 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 42, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 20, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege
Strength +10, Wpn: Fist, Boulder
Shard Guard Gold 45, Res 34, Rec 30 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 28, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 6, MM 8, Sacr, Amph, NNEat, CR +5, PR +15, DV
100, Siege Strength +2, Wpn: Shard Glaive
Wet One Gold 9, Res 5, Rec 18 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 12, Amph, NNEat, DV 100, Siege Strength +2,
Wpn: Stone Spear
320
[[page 321]]
Ulm, Forges of Ulm
Ulm is a young kingdom, risen from the Ulmic tribes conquered by the fallen Empire of Ermor. From the ashes of Ermor
emerged a new kingdom true to its ancient legacy, the Enigma of Steel. Where Marignon relied on religion to build a
kingdom, Ulm relied on steel. The mines of Ulm are famous for their riches and the smiths of Ulm work the iron into the
blacksteel armor used by the knights and infantry of Ulm. The people of Ulm are heavily built by human standards. Their infantry use full
chain or plate armor made of blacksteel. The feared Black Knights of Ulm are the most heavily armored troops known to man. The leaders
of Ulm have never approved of magic and only the Master Smiths are allowed to use it. The smiths are used to working in conditions that
are magically unfavorable and are therefore not adversely affected by provinces that have a strong Drain dominion. The smiths craft
armor and weaponry for lords and kings, but the strength of steel is preferred over magic. Even religion is of secondary importance in Ulm,
though an Iron Cult that worships steel in a more devout fashion has emerged in recent times.
Race: Stocky humans, production bonus in all castles
Military: Heavy infantry, crossbows, knights, superior armor
Magic: Earth, Fire, rarely Air and Astral. Superior magic item forging. Smiths' research not affected by Drain scale
Priests: Weak, inquisitors
Scales & Blesses: Productivity limit +1, Drain limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts (Master Masons can build better forts), forts produce 25% more resources
Ulm, recruitable commanders
Spy Gold 80, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 60, Spy, Wpn: Broad Sword
Commander of Ulm Gold 95, Res 32, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Ldr 100, Wpn: Hammer
Commander of Ulm Gold 95, Res 43, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 10, Ldr 100, Wpn: Hammer
Commander of Ulm Gold 95, Res 32, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Ldr 100, Wpn: Morningstar
Commander of Ulm Gold 95, Res 43, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 10, Ldr 100, Wpn: Morningstar
Black Lord Gold 150, Res 46, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 16, Str 14, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 2, Ldr 100, Wpn: Lance, Morningstar,
Mount: Black Destrier
Black Acolyte Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Dagger
Master Smith Gold 185, Res 7, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 12, Unhindered Researcher, Forge Bonus 2,
Resource Bonus 10, Ldr 60, MagLdr 50, Mag: F1E2, Wpn: Maul
Master Mason Gold 80, Res 52, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Siege Strength +30, Mason, Ldr 10, Wpn: Instrument
Lord Guardian Gold 110, Res 46, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 23, MR 10, Mor 16, Str 13, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Halt Heretic +3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Black Halberd
Black Priest Gold 145, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: E1H2,
Wpn: Maul
Priest Smith Gold 245, Res 7, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, Unhindered Researcher, Forge Bonus 1,
Resource Bonus 10, Ldr 20, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1E2H1, Wpn: Maul
321
[[page 322]]
Ulm, recruitable units
War Dog Gold 7, Res 9, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 15, MR 5, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 6, CS 16, MM 16, Wpn: Bite
Infantry of Ulm Gold 10, Res 29, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Battleaxe
Black Plate Infantry Gold 10, Res 40, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: Battleaxe
Infantry of Ulm Gold 10, Res 29, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Flail
Black Plate Infantry Gold 10, Res 40, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 4, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: Flail
Infantry of Ulm Gold 10, Res 32, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Hammer
Black Plate Infantry Gold 10, Res 43, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 10, Wpn: Hammer
Infantry of Ulm Gold 10, Res 27, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Maul
Black Plate Infantry Gold 10, Res 38, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: Maul
Infantry of Ulm Gold 10, Res 32, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Morningstar
Black Plate Infantry Gold 10, Res 43, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 10, Wpn: Morningstar
Pikeneer Gold 10, Res 28, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Pike
Black Plate Pikeneer Gold 10, Res 39, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: Pike
Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 30, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, Wpn: Short Sword, Arbalest
Guardian Gold 20, Res 46, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: Black Halberd
Sapper Gold 20, Res 39, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Pick Axe, Crossbow
Black Knight Gold 60, Res 46, Rec 31
HP 15, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Morningstar, Mount:
Black Destrier
Ulm, mount stats
Black Destrier
HP 24, Prot 22, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 18, Wpn: Hoof
322
[[page 323]]
Marignon, Fiery Justice
Marignon is a feudal theocracy. The Inquisition controls all aspects of the country, including warfare. The feudal lords pay
tithes and tax the peasants, but all political decisions are made solely by the Church. Marignon rose out of the ashes of
Ermor and has succeeded in holding the shadow of the fallen empire at bay through religious zeal and austerity. The
widespread fanaticism in Marignon has done wonders for its survival thus far. The heavy infantry of Marignon is armed with large
weapons such as great swords and halberds. All units carry the bright red-and-orange livery of Marignon. The Inquisitors of Marignon are
trained in the House of Fiery Justice together with Witch Hunters. The Witch Hunters are mage-priests who use Astral magic.
Race: Humans
Military: Heavy infantry, crossbows, sacred knights and flagellants
Magic: Fire, Astral, some Air and Earth
Priests: Powerful, Inquisitors
Inquisition: Automatically reduces enemy dominion and spreads own dominion up to 1 in owned provinces
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Bless points +3
Buildings: Standard Forts (Architects can build better forts)
Marignon, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Assassin Gold 80, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 65, Ambidex 2, Assassin, Patience +1, Wpn:
Short Sword, Poison Dagger
Falconeer Gold 40, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Retinue 1d6 Falcons, Ldr 10, Wpn: Short Sword
Troubadour Gold 110, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 70, Spy, Seduction , Spell Singer, Ldr 10,
Wpn: Broad Sword
Friar Gold 60, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Dagger
Paladin Gold 215, Res 32, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 16, Str 13, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, Sacr, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Lance,
Broad Sword, Mount: Destrier
Initiate Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 20, MagLdr 10, Mag: F1, Wpn: Dagger
Inquisitor Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 110, MagLdr 10, Mag: F1H2, Wpn:
Dagger
Witch Hunter Gold 260, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Patrol 10, Ldr 70, MagLdr 40, Mag: F2S1H1,
Wpn: Mace
Architect Gold 60, Res 52, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Siege Strength +15, Mason, Ldr 10, Wpn: Instrument
High Inquisitor Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 160, MagLdr 10, Mag: F1H3, Wpn:
Dagger
Grand Master Gold 520, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 8, MM 10, Sacr, Ldr 140, MagLdr 90, Mag: F3S2H2?1, Wpn:
Mace
323
[[page 324]]
Marignon, recruitable units
Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Mace, Crossbow
Swordsman Gold 10, Res 23, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Great Sword
Halberdier Gold 10, Res 22, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Halberd
Pikeneer Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Pike
Man at Arms Gold 14, Res 24, Rec 18
HP 11, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword
Royal Guard Gold 50, Res 40, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 21, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount:
Destrier
Flagellant Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 5 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Wpn: Flail
Knight of the Chalice Gold 70, Res 32, Rec 31
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, Sacr, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword,
Mount: Destrier
Marignon, mount stats
Destrier
HP 22, Prot 20, MR 5, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Wpn: Hoof
Destrier
HP 22, Prot 20, MR 6, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Sacr, Wpn: Hoof
Destrier
HP 24, Prot 20, MR 6, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Sacr, Wpn: Hoof
324
[[page 325]]
Pyrène, Time of the Akelarre
Pyrène was once a kingdom of cavern dwelling humans and their allies, the Sorginak witches and the Jentilak giants. Now
the humans have more or less abandoned their cavernous realm and established a feudal kingdom in the surrounding
mountains. The young kingdom was drawn into a long lasting war with Abysia and suffered heavy losses. The last of the
Jentilak and Basajaunak died in the defense of the Pyrène caves, but the Abysians were defeated. With the loss of their mightiest mages
and warriors new powers established themselves. Lasting exposure to Abysian blood magic had prepared the nation for a sinister
reshaping. From some dark woodland came the Akerbeltz, the Black Goats. Their influence slowly transformed the kingdom into a nation
of dark rituals and bloody ceremonies. The Akerbeltz seduced the Sorginak and made them abandon their former mistress and embrace
blood magic. Now even the priesthood have adopted blood magic and sacrifice humans to further the goals of the nation. Recently the
dark practices has drawn the attention of Marignon and its inquisitors.
Race: Humans of cave-man descent with dark-vision and elemental resistance.
Military: Human infantry, crossbows and knights, sacred mouflon knights.
Magic: Blood, Nature, Air and some Earth and Fire.
Priests: Average, can perform blood sacrifices.
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Pyrène, recruitable commanders
Pyrènian Castellan Gold 70, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 13, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Pyrènian Marquess Gold 140, Res 32, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 18, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 11, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Destrier
Pyrènian Priest Gold 105, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 17, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Dagger
Pyrènian Bishop Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 15, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 20, Mag: B1H2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Sorgina Gold 260, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 22, FS, MS, Fly, DV 100, Storm Immunity, Ldr 20,
UndLdr 20, MagLdr 50, Mag: F1A2B2, Wpn: Dagger
Bekryde Scout Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 1 (can be recruited in the capital and all non-fort caves)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, MS, Stealth 60, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Stone
Spear
Bekryde Champion Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1 (can be recruited in the capital and all non-fort caves)
HP 15, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, Wpn: Stone
Spear
Emerald Count Gold 205, Res 40, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 21, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 11, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Rider 3, Ldr
100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Sacred Mouflon
Akerbeltz Gold 450, Res 1, Rec 4 (can be recruited in the capital and non-fort forests)
HP 27, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Adept Cross Breeder +4,
Blood Searcher 1, Ldr 100, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 70, Mag: E1N2B3?1, Wpn: Athame
Pyrènian Monk Gold 105, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 17, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10,
Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Dagger
325
[[page 326]]
Pyrène, recruitable units
Bekryde Gold 12, Res 2, Rec 4 (can be recruited in the capital and all non-fort caves)
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club,
Sticks and Stones
Bekryde Gold 12, Res 2, Rec 4 (can be recruited in the capital and all non-fort caves)
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear,
Sticks and Stones
Bekryde Warrior Gold 12, Res 3, Rec 4 (can be recruited in the capital and all non-fort caves)
HP 13, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 18, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
Pyrènian Crossbowman Gold 12, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 17, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Mace,
Crossbow
Pyrènian Spearman Gold 12, Res 15, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 15, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Spear
Pyrènian Footman Gold 12, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 15, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Pyrènian Swordsman Gold 16, Res 21, Rec 16
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 13, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Great
Sword
Pyrènian Man at Arms Gold 17, Res 23, Rec 18
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 13, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Pyrènian Knight Gold 50, Res 32, Rec 27
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance,
Broad Sword, Mount: Destrier
Emerald Knight Gold 70, Res 40, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 21, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 11, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Rider 2,
Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Sacred Mouflon
Pyrène, mount stats
Destrier
HP 22, Prot 20, MR 5, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Wpn: Hoof
Sacred Mouflon
HP 26, Prot 19, MR 6, Mor 11, Str 16, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 18, MS, Sacr, Supply 5, CR +5, Wpn: Head Butt
326
[[page 327]]
Abysia, Blood and Fire
Abysia is a hot wasteland, at the center of which lies a great volcano whose lava-lit caverns are inhabited by magma-born
humanoids. Their flesh radiates heat and they are not harmed by flames. Abysians are stronger than humans and prefer
heavy armor and weaponry. Bows are not used, as they would burn to cinders in the glowing hands of the Abysians. The
war machine of Abysia also includes salamanders, lizard-like beings composed of the same hot lava-born flesh as the Abysians. Abysian
Warlocks are very powerful Blood mages and skilled crossbreeders. The Anathemant Priests of the Flame Cult practice blood sacrifice to
strengthen the power of the Awakening God. Abysians prefer to live in extremely hot places. They do not farm or hunt for a living, so their
income and supplies are not affected by the Growth or Death scale of a province. However, population will still die slowly in Abysia-
controlled provinces with Death scales.
Race: Radiates heat, fire resistance, prefers Heat scale +3, wasteland survival. Death and Growth scales have half the standard effect on income and 
population growth and no effect on supplies. Extra gold and resources in cave forts.
Military: Heavy infantry, no missile weapons, salamanders
Magic: Fire, Blood, Astral, some Earth
Priests: Powerful, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +2, Death limit +1, Bless points +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, forts reduce heat scale deaths by 2 steps
Abysia, recruitable commanders
Slayer Gold 95, Res 10, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 11, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, WS, Stealth 60, Ambidex 3, FR +25, DV
50, Heat 3, Assassin, Patience +1, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Dagger
Beast Trainer Gold 70, Res 37, Rec 1
HP 19, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, WS, FR +25, Animal Awe +4, Inspirational
-1, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 25, MagLdr 10, Wpn: Iron Prod
Warlord Gold 110, Res 34, Rec 1
HP 19, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 12, Def 6, Prec 7, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, WS, Ambidex 2, FR +25, TM +2, DV 50,
Heat 3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Axe, Axe
Anathemant Salamander Gold 260, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 70,
UndLdr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: F2H2, Wpn: Dagger
Anathemant Dragon Gold 415, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 10, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 80,
UndLdr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: F3E1H3, Wpn: Mace
Warlock Apprentice Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 12, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Adept Cross
Breeder +2, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 40, Mag: S1B2, Wpn: Dagger
Demonbred Gold 375, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 6, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 7, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 20, WS, Fly, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Blood
Searcher 1, Ldr 120, UndLdr 70, MagLdr 40, Mag: F2B2H2, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Warlock Gold 400, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 6, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 8, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Adept Cross
Breeder +6, Ldr 20, UndLdr 40, MagLdr 80, Mag: S2B3?1, Wpn: Dagger
327
[[page 328]]
Abysia, recruitable units
Humanbred Gold 13, Res 10, Rec 8
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Spear
Humanbred Gold 13, Res 10, Rec 8
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Axe
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 26, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Battleaxe
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 26, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Flail
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 27, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 8, CS 5, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Axe
Abysian Infantry Gold 20, Res 28, Rec 8
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 8, CS 5, MM 10, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn: Morningstar
Salamander Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 15
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Heat pow 1, FR +25, Heat 6, Wpn: Fire Flare,
Bite
Lava Warrior Gold 30, Res 28, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 11, Def 3, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, WS, Sacr, Ambidex 1, Heat pow 1, FR +25, DV 50,
Heat 3, Berserker +3, Wpn: Morningstar, Morningstar
328
[[page 329]]
Ashdod, Reign of the Anakim
Ashdod is a dry wasteland inhabited by the Rephaim, giants descended from the Nephilim of primordial times. The
Rephaim have degenerated and lost the prodigal powers of their predecessors, but they are still mighty in comparison to
other beings. While not as mighty as they once were, there are still a few Rephaim with pure blood. In the Twin Cities of
Ashdod and Ashkelon live the Anakim, mightiest of the Rephaim, and the Anakite priest-kings. With the disappearance of the Nephilim
and the pureblooded Rephaim, the Nephilim Cult has been replaced by ancestor worship. Malikum, Rephaite kings of old, are worshiped at
sacred banquets for the dead. The Kohanim of earlier times have been replaced by the Zamzummim, priest-mages and shepherds of the
dead, who fulfill their purpose in life by being devoured at the funerary banquets.
Race: Giants
Military: Rephaite giant infantry and human slaves. Prefers Heat scale +2
Magic: Fire, Earth, Astral, Death.
Priests: Weak, with one medium priest, sacred Anakite giants
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1, Death limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts
Ashdod, recruitable commanders
Edomite Scout Gold 45, Res 17, Rec 1
HP 21, Prot 12, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, WS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Short Sword,
Javelin
Rephaite Commander Gold 140, Res 35, Rec 1
HP 45, Prot 14, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 20, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, WS, FR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Kohen Gold 120, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 35, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Sacr, FR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Emite Gold 175, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 35, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, FR +5, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, UndLdr
50, MagLdr 10, Mag: D1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Rephaite Sage Gold 215, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 35, Prot 4, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Research +4, FR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20,
Mag: ?2, Wpn: Fist
Adon Gold 425, Res 85, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 57, Prot 18, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 23, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 20, WS, Sacr, Research -4, FR +5, Ldr 150,
MagLdr 20, Mag: H2?2, Wpn: Anakite Sword, Gore
Zamzummite Gold 440, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 35, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 16, WS, Sacr, FR +5, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 210,
MagLdr 10, Mag: E1D2H1?2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Talmai Elder Gold 520, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 45, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Sacr, Research +8, Forge Bonus 1, FR +5,
Ldr 100, MagLdr 30, Mag: ?3, Wpn: Fist, Gore
Ashdod, recruitable units
Human Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 12, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Human Slave Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 12, Wpn: Spear
Edomite Gold 20, Res 15, Rec 15
HP 21, Prot 12, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Amorite Gold 40, Res 27, Rec 17
HP 35, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 18, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, WS, FR +5, Wpn: Poison Tipped Spear
Gileadite Gold 40, Res 29, Rec 17
HP 35, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 18, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, WS, FR +5, Wpn: Spear
329
[[page 330]]
Gileadite Archer Gold 40, Res 47, Rec 17
HP 35, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 12, WS, FR +5, Wpn: Short Sword, Great Bow
Bashanite Gold 50, Res 33, Rec 21
HP 40, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 20, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, WS, FR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword
Sheshai Anakite Gold 130, Res 50, Rec 47 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 50, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 18, WS, Sacr, FR +10, Berserker +2, Wpn: Anakite
Sword, Gore
Ahiman Anakite Gold 130, Res 89, Rec 47 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 53, Prot 19, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 22, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 20, WS, Sacr, FR +5, Wpn: Anakite Sword, Gore
330
[[page 331]]
Na'Ba, Queens of the Desert
Na’Ba is a desert queendom ruled by Jiniri descendants of the Lords of Ubar. The capital of the queendom is carved out of
the rocks of Ubar where the ancient magic of the Jinn still lingers. From this hidden abode, traders with silver tongues
travel far and wide with luxurious wares imbued with ancient magic. The hidden paradise with its enchanted springs is long
since lost, but the craftsmen of Na’Ba have erected a great dam that supplies the hidden city and the surrounding lands with water. In
ancient times Ubar was a nation of men and Jinn, but magic waned and the Jinn slowly disappeared from the world. With the arrival of
refugees from Hinnom, a new era began. The Avvites, a race of giants that with an inclination to intermingle with supernatural beings,
formed an alliance with the few remaining Jinn and a new ruling class was born. The last of the Jinni Sultans took Avvite wives and their
daughters became the first queens of Na’Ba. Now the Nabaean population is made up of humans ruled by Jinni-blooded half-giants and
their Jiniri Queens.
Race: Humans, 'Adite giants and Jann. Prefers Heat scale +2
Military: Humans, giant infantry, sacred Jann warriors.
Magic: Fire, Air, Glamour, Earth and some Astral and Nature.
Priests: Average.
Dominion: Dominion hides province ownership.
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts, labs cost 300 in wastes
Na'Ba, recruitable commanders
Nabaean Scout Gold 30, Res 7, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 18, MS, WS, Stealth 50, Pillage +1, Wpn: Scimitar,
Short Bow
Sheikh Gold 90, Res 8, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Stealth 40, Inspirational +1, Pillage +5, Retinue
1d3 Falcons, Rider 2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Scimitar, Composite Bow, Mount: Camel
'Adite General Gold 115, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Scimitar
Karib Gold 110, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 3, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: E1H1,
Wpn: Dagger
Mukarrib Gold 170, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 21, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 14, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Sacr, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag:
S1H2, Wpn: Dagger
Jann Emir Gold 420, Res 23, Rec 2
HP 24, Prot 13, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 14, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, FR +5, Ldr 160,
MagLdr 40, Mag: F1A1G1H1?1, Wpn: Bronze Scimitar
Sahir Gold 475, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 21, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, FR +5, Fortune
Teller 5, Ldr 70, MagLdr 80, Mag: F2A2E1G1?1, Wpn: Fist
Malikah Gold 675, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 1, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 22, WS, Fly, Eth, Glamour, Sacr, Magic, Stealth 65,
Magic Power 1, FR +15, SR +5, SpSi, Veil Army 50 units, Ldr 130, MagLdr 130, Mag: F3A2G2H1?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Hermit Sahir Gold 175, Res 2, Rec 4 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, WS, Stealth 40, Retinue 1 , MagLdr 40, Mag:
F1A1G1?1, Wpn: Dagger
331
[[page 332]]
Na'Ba, recruitable units
Nabaean Desert Warrior Gold 7, Res 7, Rec 5 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 18, WS, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Wpn:
Scimitar, Short Bow
Nabaean Soldier Gold 10, Res 17, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Wpn: Scimitar
Nabaean Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 13, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Nabaean Camel Rider Gold 23, Res 8, Rec 4 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Retinue 1 ,
Rider 2, Wpn: Scimitar, Composite Bow, Mount: Camel
'Adite Archer Gold 25, Res 33, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 12, WS, Wpn: Short Sword, Great Bow
'Adite Light Infantry Gold 25, Res 18, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
'Adite Elite Soldier Gold 30, Res 23, Rec 19
HP 25, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Wpn: Scimitar
Jann Guard Gold 40, Res 23, Rec 19 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 22, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, FR +5,
Wpn: Bronze Scimitar
Na'Ba, mount stats
Camel
HP 20, Prot 4, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 26, MM 26, WS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Hoof
332
[[page 333]]
Uruk, City States
Uruk is a warm plain inhabited by Enkidus, large, hairy wild men with horns and unkempt hair. Since the founding of Eridu,
the First City, civilization has spread and the kingdom expanded. Other cities were founded in the image of Eridu, each
with its own character. Administrators from the City of Scribes aided local rulers, while traders and merchants from the
City of Trade improved the economic infrastructure of the kingdom. But the Ensi of Eridu lost power and petty kings of the new cities rose
to power and claimed the Ensi title. Strife and turmoil tore the kingdom apart. One of the new cities, the City of Gods was blessed by the
Awakening God and saw the first Entu of the Moon erect a great temple in the city. It soon replaced the First City as religious center and
the Entu priestesses of the First City moved to the City of Gods, no longer bound in marriage to the ruling Ensi. With the coming of the
Awakening God, the city states have set their differences aside and joined a common cause. In the plains of Uruk the First City still stands
as a symbol of civilization, although its temporal and religious power has diminished. Now each city has its own Ensi ruler. The wild men
are no longer wild, and the shamans and Bone Readers of old have been replaced by the priests and mages of the cities.
Race: Large. Prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Enkidu Infantry and fearsome Mushussu Chariots
Magic: Astral, Nature, Earth, Water and some Air.
Priests: Strong, good at recalling a dead God.
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Fortified Cities, temples cost 900
Uruk, recruitable commanders
Enkidu Scout Gold 40, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Dagger, Long Bow
Enkidu Commander Gold 60, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Ldr 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Naditu Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, MagLdr 20, Mag: S1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Nin Gold 105, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn:
Dagger
Gala Gold 105, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 14, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, Spell Singer, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag:
N1H1, Wpn: Fist
Gudu Gold 110, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Ashipu Gold 185, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 24, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, Disease Healing 1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30,
Mag: S1N1H1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ishib Gold 220, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: W1H2?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Ereshdingir Gold 265, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag:
W1S2H2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ensi Gold 300, Res 21, Rec 2
HP 28, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: W1N1H2?1,
Wpn: Short Sword
Mashmashu Gold 395, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 24, Prot 3, MR 18, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 10, MagLdr 90,
Mag: S3N1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Entu Gold 400, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 2, MR 17, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, Inspirational +2, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr
50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W1S2H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
333
[[page 334]]
Enkidu Shaman Gold 175, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, Research -4, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: E1N2,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Kulullu Commander Gold 60, Res 11, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 31, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 20, Aqua, Ldr 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Kulullu King Gold 200, Res 11, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 32, Prot 11, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 18, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 100, MagLdr 10, Mag: W1H2,
Wpn: Bronze Spear
Kulullu Sage Gold 265, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 26, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, Aqua, Research +4, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag:
W2?1, Wpn: Fist
Kuliltu Queen Gold 270, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 24, Prot 4, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 13, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W1N1H2?1,
Wpn: Fist
Uruk, recruitable units
Enkidu Archer Gold 16, Res 16, Rec 9
HP 24, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Long Bow
Enkidu Spearman Gold 16, Res 16, Rec 9
HP 24, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Spear
Enkidu Heavy Archer Gold 16, Res 24, Rec 9
HP 24, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Long Bow
Enkidu Soldier Gold 16, Res 24, Rec 9
HP 24, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Enkidu Royal Guard Gold 20, Res 26, Rec 15
HP 26, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword
Enkidu Iron Warrior Gold 22, Res 24, Rec 17
HP 26, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Berserker +1, Wpn: Axe
Mushussu Charioteer Gold 170, Res 21, Rec 16 (max 1/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 12, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Mount: Mushussu
Maiden of the Moon Gold 27, Res 31, Rec 16 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 21, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Enkidu Warrior Gold 16, Res 16, Rec 9 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 26, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Axe
Kulullu Gold 16, Res 2, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 28, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 22, Aqua, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Kulullu Soldier Gold 16, Res 11, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 28, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 20, Aqua, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Uruk, mount stats
Mushussu
HP 68, Prot 15, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 20, Att 14, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, SS, Trample, PR +15, Fear +5, Wpn: Gore, Claw,
Venomous Fangs
334
[[page 335]]
Ind, Magnificent Kingdom of Exalted Virtue
Ind is a fabled kingdom of marvelous riches hidden beyond heathen lands. Led by righteous kings of unequaled piety, rumors of
the kingdom have attracted the attention of other lords. But even the most ambitious expeditions have yet failed to find
magnificent Ind. Ind is a theocratic empire with subservient heathen petty kings and tribes of wild men. Only Ind itself is a bastion
of piety and marvelous riches. Every important official in Ind is also a priest, bishop or archbishop, and every noble is a king. In the lands of Ind
every mansion is a palace and every building is a temple. The armies are righteous and every soldier fulfills a sacred task. But it is not the soldiers of
the land that wage the wars of Ind. Instead it is the subservient tribes of heathens, flesh-eaters and Cynocephalians that the righteous Prester King
unleashes upon the enemies of the True Lord. Ind is hidden by the will of the Awakening God.
Race: Humans and strange tribesmen. Prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Sacred human infantry, cannibal warriors, Cynocephalians and subservient kingdoms.
Magic: Astral, Earth, Fire, Blood and some Water, Nature and Death.
Priests: Powerful. All commanders are priests. Only high ranking priests can become prophets. Every temple adds one to the sacred recruit limit.
Dominion: Conflict bonus -2. Dominion hides province ownership.
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Heat limit +1, Magic limit +1, Bless points +2
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Fortified City, temples cost 300
Ind, recruitable commanders
Abbot Sage Gold 150, Res 11, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Research +2, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 50, MagLdr
20, Mag: S1H2, Wpn: Fist
Bishop General Gold 160, Res 15, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Sacr, Ldr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn: Short Sword
Archbishop Marshal Gold 235, Res 15, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 8, Sacr, Ldr 150, Mag: H2, Wpn: Short Sword
Primate King Gold 300, Res 20, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Sacr, Ldr 160, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1H3?1, Wpn:
Baculus
Abbot Magus Gold 335, Res 18, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 7, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Research +2, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 60, MagLdr
60, Mag: F1E1S2H2, Wpn: Baculus
Abbot Magus Supreme Gold 470, Res 18, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 7, MR 18, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Research +4, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 70, MagLdr
90, Mag: F1E1S3H2?1, Wpn: Baculus
Cannibal Warlord Gold 40, Res 8, Rec 1 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 15, Prot 8, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, MS, WS, Pillage +2, Berserker +3, Ldr 40, Wpn:
Battleaxe, Javelin
Bishop Vicomte Gold 160, Res 3, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn: Short Sword
Viceroy Primate Gold 255, Res 8, Rec 4 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 40, Mag: H3, Wpn: Baculus
Cannibal Shaman Chief Gold 125, Res 5, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 14, FS, MS, WS, Research -4, Heretic 1, Pillage +2, Ldr
40, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: B1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ind, recruitable units
Archer Priest Gold 13, Res 4, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Sacr, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Soldier Priest Gold 15, Res 18, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Sacr, Wpn: Broad Sword
Mirror Guard Gold 19, Res 21, Rec 21 (max 3/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, Sacr, Wpn: Broad Sword
Baculite Gold 19, Res 14, Rec 31 (max 3/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Baculus
335
[[page 336]]
Bandar Log, Land of the Apes
In the dense forests of the Bandar realm, apes of uncanny brightness have emerged. Under the influence of semi-divine
beings, the apes have evolved intelligence and developed a culture. When the former rulers of Bandar Log returned to
their Celestial Realms, the apes were left without leadership. A warlike, hierarchical society was formed with the large
Bandar apes at the top. But the influence of the former masters was not forgotten and the blessed White Ones who were gifted with
higher intelligence and magical powers were able to keep their influence and power. Bandar Log is a divided society. Small Markatas are at
the bottom of the society. Vanara apes of human size are the most common. Large Bandar apes rule most of the society and form the
military. Sacred White Ones are trained as sages, priests and holy warriors.
Race: Apes, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: A multitude of missile weapons, light and medium infantry, elephants, sacred tiger riders
Magic: Astral, Nature, some Water and Earth
Priests: Weak
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Bandar Log, recruitable commanders
Markata Scout Gold 25, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 60, Wpn: Dagger, Sticks and Stones
Vanara Captain Gold 50, Res 17, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Ldr 75, Wpn: Falchion
Atavi Chieftain Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Falchion, Sticks
and Stones
Bandar Commander Gold 105, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 23, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Bandar Noble Gold 160, Res 19, Rec 2
HP 21, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Ldr 150, Wpn: Battleaxe
Brahmin Gold 60, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Mace
Yogi Gold 80, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: S1, Wpn: Fist
Guru Gold 225, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 2, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: S2N1, Wpn: Fist
Rishi Gold 445, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Float, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 100, Mag: S3N2?1,
Wpn: Fist
Bandar Log, recruitable units
Markata Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Club, Sticks and Stones
Markata Archer Gold 5, Res 2, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Fist, Short Bow
Atavi Archer Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Atavi Infantry Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and
Stones
Vanara Archer Gold 8, Res 14, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Vanara Chakram Thrower Gold 8, Res 15, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Chakram
336
[[page 337]]
Vanara Infantry Gold 8, Res 14, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace
Vanara Swordsman Gold 11, Res 17, Rec 12
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Falchion
Light Bandar Archer Gold 16, Res 6, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Mace, Long Bow
Bandar Archer Gold 16, Res 21, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Mace, Long Bow
Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 18, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Iron Cudgel
Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 18, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Mace
Light Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 11, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and Stones
Royal Swordsman Gold 24, Res 22, Rec 19
HP 20, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Falchion
Elephant Rider Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Small Hammer, Mount: War
Elephant, Coriders: 2 * Elephant Archers
White One Gold 23, Res 17, Rec 31
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Sacr, Wpn: Falchion
Tiger Rider Gold 60, Res 17, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Rider 2, Wpn: Falchion,
Mount: Armored Sacred Tiger
Bandar Log, mount stats
Armored Sacred Tiger
HP 23, Prot 16, MR 6, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 20, FS, Sacr, DV 50, Smart 100, Wpn: Bite, Claw
War Elephant
HP 64, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn: Tusk
337
[[page 338]]
T'ien Ch'i, Imperial Bureaucracy
The Celestial Empire of T'ien Ch'i is ancient. Since the founding of the Empire, peace has reigned and a Bureaucracy of
great efficiency has evolved. Ministers and officials chosen by skill rather than birth govern the Empire. The Emperor and
his family are considered divine, but are not involved in the administration. The cavalry of T'ien Ch'i is well known and the
infantry is varied and versatile. The eunuchs who run the Bureaucracy are able to conscript troops for the defense of provinces as part of
the taxes due to the Emperor. A magic tradition called The Way is practiced by hermits and scholars in the kingdom. Prominent Masters of
the Way come to the Heavenly Gate in the capital to be ordained as Celestial Masters. These mage-priests can summon heavenly beings
from the Celestial Sphere to serve the Empire.
Race: Humans
Military: Cavalry, heavy infantry, archers, crossbows. Conscription
Magic: Water, Astral, Fire, Air, Earth, Nature and Glamour, Summon Celestial Beings
Priests: Average.
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Misfortune limit +1
Buildings: Fortified Cities
T'ien Ch'i, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger,
Short Bow
Imperial Consort Gold 95, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Stealth 70, Spy, Wpn: Fist
Eunuch Gold 45, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Patrol 15, Ldr 50, Wpn: Yak Tail Fly
Whisk
General Gold 110, Res 27, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 22, MM 16, Rider 2, Ldr 100, Wpn: Lance,
Falchion, Composite Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Ceremonial Master Gold 65, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Yak Tail Fly Whisk
Minister of Rituals Gold 100, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, Mag:
H2, Wpn: Yak Tail Fly Whisk
Apothecary Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Disease Healing 1, PR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr
10, Mag: N1, Wpn: Pestle, Poison Darts
Imperial Geomancer Gold 90, Res 4, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 14, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30,
Mag: E1S1, Wpn: Bamboo Rod
Minister of Magic Gold 90, Res 4, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Research +4, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
?1, Wpn: Bamboo Rod
Alchemist of the Five Elements Gold 120, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 14, Disease Healing 1, PR +10, Alchemy
Bonus 25, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: N1?1, Wpn: Pestle
Master of the Way Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, NNEat, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
W1H1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Prince General Gold 335, Res 24, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 13, Mor 16, Str 11, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 22, MM 16, Sacr, Rider 2, Ldr 150, Wpn:
Lance, Falchion, Mount: Cataphracted War Horse
338
[[page 339]]
Imperial Alchemist Gold 315, Res 4, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Disease Healing 2, PR +10, Alchemy
Bonus 50, Ldr 20, MagLdr 70, Mag: F1A1W1E1N2?1, Wpn: Pestle
Celestial Master Gold 415, Res 5, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, NNEat, Ldr 10, MagLdr 80, Mag:
A1W2E1S1G1H2?1, Wpn: Yak Tail Fly Whisk
T'ien Ch'i, recruitable units
Footman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Pike
Footman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Glaive
Footman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Archer Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword, Composite Bow
Ministry Guardsman Gold 12, Res 14, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Patrol 1, Wpn: Glaive
Ministry Footman Gold 12, Res 14, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Ministry Guardsman Gold 12, Res 15, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Patrol 1, Wpn: Man Catcher
Imperial Footman Gold 13, Res 20, Rec 16
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Spear
Imperial Archer Gold 13, Res 21, Rec 16
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Short Sword, Composite Bow
Imperial Crossbowman Gold 13, Res 21, Rec 16
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Short Sword, Crossbow
Imperial City Guard Gold 14, Res 20, Rec 18
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Patrol 2, Wpn: Glaive
Imperial Guard Gold 15, Res 23, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Falchion
Horseman Gold 25, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Rider 1, Wpn: Light Lance, Composite
Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Heavy Horseman Gold 25, Res 21, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 1, Wpn: Light Lance, Composite
Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Imperial Horseman Gold 30, Res 24, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 1, Wpn: Lance, Falchion, Mount:
Armored Steppe Horse
Red Guard Gold 50, Res 24, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 10, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Falchion,
Mount: Cataphracted War Horse
T'ien Ch'i, mount stats
Armored Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 26, Wpn: Hoof
Armored Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 24, Wpn: Hoof
Cataphracted War Horse
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 6, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 22, Sacr, Wpn: Hoof
339
[[page 340]]
Shinuyama, Land of the Bakemono
When the entrance to the Netherworld closed, the Oni became fewer and fewer. Their Bakemono slaves and human
servants rebelled, and when the last of the Dai Oni died, the realm was taken over by Bakemono Kings. Human smiths
were forced to reveal the secrets of metalcraft and the Bakemono have become ready to conquer the lowlands from the
humans. The Bakemono still live in a tribal society ruled by the strongest and most powerful of their kin. The Bakemono are a diverse kind.
Huge lumbering O-Bakemono, proud Dai-Bakemono, ghostly apparitions and shapeshifting animals of the enchanted forests all heed the
call of the Bakemono Kings and the Awakening God.
Race: Bakemono. Extra gold and resources in cave forts. Lesser bakemonos rebated in mountain.
Military: Light infantry, medium infantry, heavy infantry. Kappas able to enter the sea, supernatural commanders. No sacred troops
Magic: Death, Fire, Earth, Water, Nature. Many national summons
Priests: Weak
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts
Shinuyama, recruitable commanders
Bakemono Scout Gold 30, Res 7, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, MS, Stealth 55, DV 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Noppera-bo Gold 150, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Stealth 70, Fear +5, SpSi, Assassin, Patience
+3, Wpn: Wakizashi
Bandit Leader Gold 60, Res 16, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Stealth 40, Pillage +3, Ldr 50, Wpn: No-Dachi
Bakemono Chief Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Wakizashi
Kappa Chief Gold 70, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited in both land and underwater forts)
HP 23, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 10, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Ldr 50, Wpn: Claw, Koppo
Bakemono General Gold 115, Res 27, Rec 1
HP 25, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 10, MS, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn: No-Dachi
Shuten-doji Gold 150, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 18, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 16, Sleep Aura 10, DV 50, Invulnerability 15, Ldr
100, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 50, Wpn: Claw, Life Drain
Bakemono Shaman Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, FS, MS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Research -2, DV 50, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Uba Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag:
W1D1N1?1, Wpn: Poison Dagger
Bakemono Sorcerer Gold 545, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 26, Prot 11, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 10, MS, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 70, UndLdr 100, MagLdr
60, Mag: F2W1E2D2H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
340
[[page 341]]
Shinuyama, recruitable units
Bakemono-Sho Gold 7, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Club
Bakemono-Sho Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Yari
Bakemono Archer Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, DV 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Bakemono-Sho Gold 8, Res 6, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, MS, DV 50, Wpn: Yari
Bakemono Archer Gold 8, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, MS, DV 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Bandit Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 5
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Wpn: Yari
Bandit Gold 9, Res 16, Rec 5
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Stealth 40, Pillage +1, Wpn: Wakizashi, Short
Bow
Bakemono Warrior Gold 9, Res 8, Rec 12
HP 11, Prot 10, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, MS, DV 50, Wpn: Wakizashi
Kappa Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 8 (can be recruited in both land and underwater forts)
HP 15, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 10, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Claw, Koppo
Dai Bakemono Gold 25, Res 27, Rec 19
HP 21, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 10, MS, DV 50, Wpn: No-Dachi
Dai Bakemono Gold 25, Res 31, Rec 19
HP 20, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 10, MS, DV 50, Wpn: No-Dachi, Long Bow
O-bakemono Gold 25, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 28, Prot 11, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, MS, DV 50, Wpn: Great Club
341
[[page 342]]
Caelum, Reign of the Seraphim
Caelum is a magocracy of winged humanoids who inhabit the highest mountain peaks. In ancient times, there were three
Caelian clans led by semi-divine beings known as Yazatas. The Raptor clan was accepted by the Yazatas even though they
were held responsible for the corruption of Catharsis. When the Harab Seraphs of the Raptor clan began to study dark
magic once more, the purifying flames were tainted and Catharsis became Anthrax, King of Banefires. As a result many of the Seraphines
died from a wasting disease and their sacred task was abandoned. The Harab Seraphs were condemned and civil war broke out. The
Raptor Clan was banished and scattered across the world. The last of the Eagle Kings disappeared and were replaced by the High Seraphs
of the Airya clan. The Seraphs are administrators, judges and temporal leaders of Caelum. They are masters of Air magic and craft the
magical ice that Caelians use instead of regular metal. The ice tempers with lower temperatures and the heavy ice armor is more durable
in cold climates than in warmer ones. All weapons crafted from the ice are magical and capable of harming magical beings. The Airyas live
in the coldest mountain peaks and are unaffected by low temperatures. They are thin and light. Spire Horn Caelians are less resistant to
cold but have partial resistance to lightning. Since the fall of the Harab Seraphs more of them have turned to martial occupations. The
Caelians are skilled archers and prefer hit-and-run tactics, even though they do have some heavy troops, such as huge Mammoths.
Race: Flying, cold resistant, partially shock resistant, prefers Cold scale +3
Military: Flying units, skilled archers, mammoths
Magic: Air, Water, some Astral and Death, weak Fire
Priests: Weak, Guardian Spirits.
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Ice Forts, forts reduce cold scale deaths by 1 step
Caelum, recruitable commanders
Caelian Scout Gold 35, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Stealth 55, SR +5, CR +5, Ice Armor 1, Storm
Immunity, Wpn: Ice Blade
Airya Noble Gold 70, Res 38, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Ice
Sword
Storm General Gold 95, Res 36, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 22, Fly, SR +10, CR +10, Ice Armor 2, Storm
Immunity, Ldr 100, Wpn: Ice Blade
Seraphine Gold 95, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 65, CR +15, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Ice Knife
Ice Crafter Gold 65, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Forge Bonus 1, CR +15, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag:
W1, Wpn: Ice Hammer
Spire Horn Seraph Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Ldr 10, MagLdr
10, Mag: A1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Caelian Seraph Gold 175, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: A2W1, Wpn: Ice
Knife
High Seraph Gold 355, Res 3, Rec 4
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 9, Def 5, Prec 12, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, CR +15, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: A3W2?1, Wpn:
Ice Mace
342
[[page 343]]
Caelum, recruitable units
Spire Horn Militia Gold 8, Res 5, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Wpn: Ice Spear
Spire Horn Archer Gold 10, Res 6, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Ice Knife,
Short Bow
Airya Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Lance
Spire Horn Warrior Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Ice
Lance
Wingless Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Ice Lance
Airya Infantry Gold 10, Res 16, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Blade
Iceclad Gold 15, Res 40, Rec 21
HP 9, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Wpn: Ice Lance
Storm Guard Gold 15, Res 31, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 22, Fly, SR +10, CR +10, Ice Armor 2, Storm
Immunity, Wpn: Ice Lance
Mammoth Rider Gold 120, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +20, Storm Immunity, Wpn:
Small Hammer, Mount: Mammoth, Coriders: 2 * Mammoth Archers
Temple Guard Gold 20, Res 42, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Sacr, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Wpn: Ice Blade
Blizzard Warrior Gold 20, Res 13, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Knife, Frost
Bow
Caelum, mount stats
Mammoth
HP 64, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, CR +15, Wpn: Tusk
343
[[page 344]]
Nazca, Kingdom of the Sun
Nazca is a mountain necrocracy of winged humanoids. It was once a far off Caelian colony, but with the fall of the Raptors
and the disappearance of the Eagle Kings contact with Caelum was broken and the descendants of the Eagle Kings became
Nazcan Sun Kings, Incas. With the demise of the last Eagle Kings steps were taken to preserve the wisdom of the kings of
old. The necromantic practices of the Raptor Clan were not banned in Nazca and the divine kings were mummified and preserved, should
their advice be needed in the future. Priests of the dead began to mummify other influential members of society as well. Since old kings
and queens were supposed to be wiser than the living, a council of mummies was formed to aid and guide the Incas. The priests would
listen to the mummies and divine their will. Now Nazca has turned into a necrocracy, a kingdom ruled by mummies of the silent council.
The Sun Kings rule in their name, but it is the mummies of ancient kings and their interpreters who have the true power in the kingdom.
The mummies of nobles and priests are transported to and fro to decide in judicial matters as well as to attend feasts and ceremonies. The
royal mummies are too valuable to disturb unless the matters at hand are of utmost importance. The ice crafting of Caelum has been lost
and Nazca uses light armors of cloth and bronze. The Nazcans can field vast armies of unskilled soldiers. Commoners indebted to the
mummies, allied soldiers from conquered human mountain kingdoms, and walking dead reanimated by the mummies of dead priests form
most of the armies of the kingdom.
Race: Flying, cold resistant, commanders mummified on death, prefers Cold scale +1
Military: Flying units, free recruits of low quality, reanimated dead, sacred Sun Guard
Magic: Fire, Earth, Air, Death, Astral and some Nature
Priests: Powerful, undead priests can reanimate the dead
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Cold limit +1, Death limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts
Nazca, recruitable commanders
Runancha Gold 35, Res 6, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, Stealth 55, CR +5, Wpn:
Stone Spear
Kuraka Gold 40, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 13, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, MS, CR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Mace,
Javelin
Apu Gold 55, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, CR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Mace
Apusqispay Gold 95, Res 8, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, CR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Mace
Mallqui Gold 200, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 8, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 30, Str 8, Att 5, Def 3, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Inanim, Und, NNEat, PiR, CR +15, PR
+25, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Ldr 20, UndLdr 100, Wpn: , Mounts: 4 * Bearers
Aclla Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 20, MagLdr 20, Mag:
F1A1H1, Wpn: Fist
Mallqui Priestess Gold 250, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 30, Str 8, Att 5, Def 3, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Inanim, Und, NNEat, PiR, Divine
Reanimation Bonus 2, Ritual Reanimation Bonus 2, CR +15, PR +25, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 30,
UndLdr 150, MagLdr 20, Mag: F1A1H1, Wpn: , Mounts: 4 * Bearers
Hurin Priest Gold 330, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100,
MagLdr 30, Mag: E1D2H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Mallqui Priest Gold 500, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 30, Str 8, Att 5, Def 3, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Inanim, Und, NNEat, PiR, Divine
Reanimation Bonus 3, Ritual Reanimation Bonus 3, CR +15, PR +25, Inspirational +1, SpSi, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 20,
UndLdr 250, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1D2H2?1, Wpn: , Mounts: 4 * Bearers
Inca Gold 425, Res 6, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 8, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, SR +10, CR +5, Awe +1,
Storm Immunity, Ldr 120, MagLdr 50, Mag: F2A2H3, Wpn: Sun Spear
344
[[page 345]]
Coya Gold 455, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 22, Fly, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 50, UndLdr 110,
MagLdr 70, Mag: E2S2D2H2, Wpn: Fist
Royal Mallqui Gold 1200, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 5, MR 18, Mor 30, Str 10, Att 5, Def 3, Prec 8, Enc 0, CS 2, MM 0, Sacr, Inanim, Und, NNEat, PiR, Divine
Reanimation Bonus 4, Ritual Reanimation Bonus 4, CR +15, PR +25, Inspirational +2, SpSi, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 40,
UndLdr 250, MagLdr 100, Mag: F2A2E2S2D2H3, Wpn: , Mounts: 4 * Bearers
Paqo of the Earth Mother Gold 135, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, MS, Research -4, Disease Healing 1,
CR +5, Heretic 1, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1N1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Paqo of the Mountain Spirits Gold 145, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 11, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, MS, Research -4, Disease Healing 1,
SR +15, CR +5, Heretic 1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1N1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Nazca, recruitable units
Hatun Runa Gold 5, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 20, MS, Fly, CR +5, Wpn: Mace
Human Warrior Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Human Warrior Gold 8, Res 3, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Human Warrior Gold 8, Res 3, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Mace, Sling
Human Warrior Gold 8, Res 7, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Mace, Javelin
Aucac Runa Spearman Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, CR +5, Wpn: Bronze Lance
Aucac Runa Maceman Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, CR +5, Wpn: Mace
Aucac Runa Axeman Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, CR +5, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Aucac Runa Archer Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, CR +5, Wpn: Mace, Short Bow
Condor Warrior Gold 20, Res 8, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, MS, Fly, Sacr, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn:
Bronze Lance
Sun Guard Gold 23, Res 14, Rec 27 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 12, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 18, MS, Fly, Sacr, CR +5, Wpn: Sun Mace
Nazca, mount stats
Bearer
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 6, Str 11, Att 7, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 6, MM 18, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Fist
345
[[page 346]]
Mictlan, Reign of the Lawgiver
Mictlan is an ancient tribal empire that has been isolated for centuries. The foul practices of the priest-kings of Mictlan
have caused most of their neighbors to leave or face slavery and blood sacrifice. Since the dawn of the kingdom, blood has
been spilled in the temples of the capital. Now a new era has dawned and the isolation is broken with the coming of the
Lawgiver. The Blood Cult has been abolished and the priests now follow the Lawgiver. Isolation has made Mictlan a backward nation and
its warriors use archaic weaponry and armor. The armies are mainly composed of slaves from newly conquered lands. The mage-priests of
Mictlan celebrate the two Faces and the two Dominions of the Lawgiver, namely the Sun and the Moon, the Rain and the Forest.
Race: Humans, prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Light infantry with slings and javelins, tribal kings can levy slaves, sacred Eagle and Jaguar Warriors
Magic: Air, Fire, Astral, Nature, Water
Priests: Powerful
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1, Bless points +3
Buildings: Primitive Fortified Cities
Mictlan, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Stone Spear, Sling
Tribal King Gold 125, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 100, Wpn: Obsidian
Club Sword, Javelin
Mictlan Priest Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1,
Wpn: Stone Dagger
Sky Priest Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Patrol 10, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 10, Mag: A1H1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Nahualli Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: S1N2, Wpn:
Stone Dagger
Rain Priest Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: W2H2,
Wpn: Stone Dagger
Moon Priest Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
S2H2, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Sun Priest Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 70, MagLdr 20, Mag: F2H2,
Wpn: Stone Dagger
Priest King Gold 315, Res 5, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 3, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 150, MagLdr 20, Mag:
N2H3, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
High Priest of the Sky Gold 335, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Patrol 20, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr
60, MagLdr 30, Mag: A2H3?1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Couatl Gold 420, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 14, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 28, FS, SS, Fly, Sacr, Magic, PR +15, Inspirational
+1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 140, Mag: S3N1H2?2, Wpn: Venomous Fangs
346
[[page 347]]
Mictlan, recruitable units
Warrior Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Stone Spear, Sling
Warrior Gold 9, Res 8, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Sling
Warrior Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Warrior Gold 9, Res 13, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Javelin
Moon Warrior Gold 12, Res 14, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, DV 50, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Feathered Warrior Gold 18, Res 13, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Javelin
Eagle Warrior Gold 15, Res 3, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ambidex 3, Wpn: Bronze Lance, Stone
Dagger
Sun Warrior Gold 18, Res 15, Rec 18 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Sacr, FR +5, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet, Javelin
Jaguar Warrior Gold 26, Res 4, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
347
[[page 348]]
Xibalba, Flooded Caves
Xibalba is a vast realm of dark water-filled caverns beneath the forests of Mictlan. According to legend, the sun and the
moon passed through the cavernous realm on their daily journey to the eastern horizon. On this journey they were
guarded by the bat people, Zotz, that dwelled in the dark reaches of the Xibalban underworld. But the cavernous realm
was struck by a great disaster. A star fell into the ocean and a great deluge flooded the caves of Xibalba. The bat people drowned or fled
the caves, but other inhabitants soon emerged. The Zotz were replaced by refugees from the shattered Atlantis. The fallen star, or
possibly the dark magic of Xibalba, changed the Atlantians. The Atlantians of Xibalba developed more toadlike traits and different broods
emerged. They called themselves Muuch, toad people. Their kings, the Bacabs, mighty mages of the deluge, conquered the last Xibalban
city and built a Muuch kingdom in the caves underneath the forests of Mictlan. After a while the Muuch began to settle the forests above
their caverns and a new brood of Muuch appeared. A brittle alliance of Muuch and Zotz has formed in the forests. Meanwhile the Bacabs
hunted down the remaining Zotz hiding in dried-out caves and forced them into servitude. Now Xibalba is a Muuch kingdom with a small
subjugated Zotz population.
Race: Amphibious cave dwellers, a few Zotz remain, prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Amphibious infantry, flying stealthy light infantry
Magic: Water, Earth, Death, Nature and some Blood and Air
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Sloth limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts
Xibalba, recruitable commanders
Muuch Ajaw Gold 160, Res 34, Rec 1 (can be recruited in both land and underwater forts)
HP 31, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 100, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Obsidian Blade
Ah Itz Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr
10, Mag: W1D1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Ah Ha' Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in both land and underwater forts)
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20,
Mag: W1E1H1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Muuch K'uhul Gold 405, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in both land and underwater forts)
HP 28, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 16, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Gift of Water Breathing
50 size points, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: W2E1D1H1?1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Chak Muuch Assassin Gold 160, Res 27, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Amph, Stealth 65, DV 50, Assassin,
Patience +1, Wpn: Poisoned Obsidian Blade, Poison Dart
Camazotz Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in the capital and all caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Ldr
10, UndLdr 110, MagLdr 30, Mag: D2B1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Bacab Gold 635, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 27, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Resource Bonus 5,
Gift of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 150, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 60, Mag: W3E2D1H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Muuch Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all forests)
HP 14, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, FS, SS, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Stone
Dagger
Muuch Batab Gold 60, Res 11, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all forests)
HP 16, Prot 12, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, SS, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn:
Bronze Hatchet
Zotz Batab Gold 60, Res 4, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all forest and caves)
HP 7, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 16, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Ldr
75, MagLdr 10, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
348
[[page 349]]
Way Gold 200, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in all forest and caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Research -4, Blood Searcher 1,
Patrol -1, Ldr 10, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 40, Mag: N2B1, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Xibalba, recruitable units
Muuch Militia Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
Muuch Dart Thrower Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone
Dagger, Obsidian Dart
Muuch Warrior Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone
Spear
Muuch Warrior Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Obsidian
Club Sword
Muuch Warrior Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze
Spear
Muuch Warrior Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Obsidian
Club Sword
Chak Muuch Dart Thrower Gold 19, Res 5, Rec 19 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Wpn:
Poisoned Bronze Spear, Poison Dart
Chak Muuch Obsidian Warrior Gold 26, Res 26, Rec 29 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Wpn:
Poisoned Obsidian Blade
Wo' Muuch Gold 35, Res 34, Rec 39 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 26, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Wpn:
Obsidian Blade
Zotz Warrior Gold 8, Res 1, Rec 6 (max 15/month) (can be recruited in all forest and caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1,
Patrol -1, Wpn: Stone Lance
Zotz Warrior Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 6 (max 15/month) (can be recruited in all forest and caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1,
Patrol -1, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Muuch Jungle Warrior Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9 (can be recruited in all forests)
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, FS, SS, Amph, Stealth 40, DV 50,
Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Lakam Ha' Warrior Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Net, Stone
Spear
Lakam Ha' Warrior Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
349
[[page 350]]
C'tis, Miasma
C'tis is a swampy river valley surrounded by sandy deserts. In the fertile valley a sacral kingdom of lizard-like humanoids
has formed. The kingdom is ancient by human standards and its wisdom and magical knowledge are great. At the top of the
society is the Lizard King. The King is the highest priest of C'tis. Under the king are the High Priests with their sacred
serpents. The lizards are herbivores, but have enslaved a race of carnivorous lizardmen who serve as soldiers and workers. The C'tissians
are somewhat slow in movement, but have thick hides that protect them from cuts and bruises. Both lizard races are cold-blooded and
become exhausted very quickly when fighting in cold provinces. They have partial resistance to poisons. The inhabitants of C'tis prefer to
live in warm provinces. With the coming of the New God, the swamps of C'tis have begun to spread. Dense rain and oppressive heat turn
the lands into unhealthy marshlands, thick with the stench of rotting vegetation. Marshmasters have taken the place of the Sauromancers
of old and the Swamp Guard has replaced the chariots as elite troops. In this land, the lizards prosper. Within provinces influenced by this
Dominion, income is increased in provinces owned by C'tis, while the income of other provinces is severely reduced. Unless cold-blooded,
soldiers inside the Dominion will suffer from disease. The New God and all their sacred units are immune to this effect. Underwater
provinces are not affected by these special dominion effects.
Race: Thick hides, cold-blooded, poison resistance, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: Infantry, slave warriors, sacred serpents, large Sobek warriors and sacred guards
Magic: Death, Nature, Water, some Astral
Priests: Powerful
Dominion: Transforms lands to swamps, increases own income, reduces income for everyone else, diseases non-coldblooded units.
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
C'tis, recruitable commanders
Taskmaster Gold 40, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, PR +5, TM +2, Ldr 50, Wpn: Whip
Commander of C'tis Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Spear
Lizard Lord Gold 95, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 8, SS, PR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Hierodule Gold 40, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Mag: H1, Wpn: Claw
High Priest of C'tis Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Claw
Lizard King Gold 340, Res 5, Rec 4
HP 17, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 150, Mag: H3, Wpn:
Falchion
Lizard Shaman Gold 125, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1N1,
Wpn: Mace, Bite
Marshmaster Gold 330, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, PR +10, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag:
W1D2N2?1, Wpn: Claw
Sobek General Gold 200, Res 31, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 29, Prot 20, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 10, SS, Sacr, PR +10, TM +1, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion,
Bite
Empoisoner Gold 125, Res 6, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 17, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Stealth 55, PR +15, Assassin, Patience +2,
Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: D1N1, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Sling
350
[[page 351]]
C'tis, recruitable units
Militia Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 5
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
C'tissian Heavy Infantry Gold 10, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
City Guard Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
C'tissian Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Runner Gold 12, Res 2, Rec 7
HP 12, Prot 3, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 16, MM 18, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear, Bite
Slave Warrior Gold 13, Res 3, Rec 8
HP 13, Prot 3, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Trident, Bite
Falchioneer Gold 13, Res 17, Rec 18
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, SS, Ambidex 2, PR +5, Wpn: Falchion,
Falchion
Elite Warrior Gold 15, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 13, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Trident, Bite
Poison Slinger Gold 24, Res 6, Rec 32 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, PR +10, Wpn: Dagger, Poison Sling
Sobek Warrior Gold 30, Res 34, Rec 13 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 25, Prot 20, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 8, CS 8, MM 10, SS, PR +10, Wpn: Falchion, Bite
Swamp Guard Gold 19, Res 21, Rec 22 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 8, SS, Sacr, PR +10, Wpn: Falchion
Sobek Sacred Guard Gold 55, Res 37, Rec 33 (max 2/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 37, Prot 21, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 12, SS, Sacr, PR +10, Wpn: Halberd, Bite
351
[[page 352]]
Machaka, Reign of Sorcerors
Machaka is an old sacral kingdom where the well-being of the land is thought to be dependent on the will of the king. The
king is the highest priest of the kingdom, but should he fail in his duties, he is sacrificed and replaced by one of his
numerous sons or brothers. The priests of the kingdom are the true rulers of the land. Religious ceremonies, judicial tasks
and the gathering of intelligence are all performed by the Eyes, Ears, and Voices of the Lord. Only warfare is handed over to secular
commanders. Machaka uses light infantry, archers and heavy hoplites second only to those of Arcoscephale. In the forests of Machaka,
giant spiders are caught and used as mounts. One other area is left untouched by the priests: Magic. Simple witch doctors living outside
villages grudgingly serve the priests. In the depths of the God Forest lies a lonely mountain filled with caves. Here resides the true power
of Machaka, above even the priests - the Black Sorcerers, Sorceresses and their Spider Warriors.
Race: Humans, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: Heavy infantry, light infantry, spider riders, assassins
Magic: Fire, Earth, Death, Nature and Glamour
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Machaka, recruitable commanders
Machaka Scout Gold 35, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Dagger, Short
Bow
Machaka Chief Gold 55, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Ldr 75, Wpn: Spear
Machaka Commander Gold 95, Res 27, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 14, FS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Machaka Spear
Spider Lord Gold 125, Res 25, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, FS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Spear, Mount: Great
Spider
Eye of the Lord Gold 90, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Patrol 15, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Flail
Voice of the Lord Gold 160, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn: Mace
Ear of the Lord Gold 150, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Stealth 60, Spy, MagLdr 10, Mag:
G1H1, Wpn: Short Sword
Witch Doctor Gold 110, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Research -4, Ldr 20, UndLdr 50, MagLdr
20, Mag: F1D1N1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Sorcerer Gold 300, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Ldr 20, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag:
F1D1N2G1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Voice of the Hunters Gold 230, Res 33, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Lance,
Falchion, Mount: Hunter Spider
Bane Spider Gold 150, Res 38, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Stealth 50, Ambidex 2, DV 50, Assassin,
Patience +2, Scale Walls, Ldr 25, MagLdr 10, Mag: G1, Wpn: Bane Blade, Bane Dagger
Spider Sorceress Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, PR +5, Dominion Summoner 0+ Great
Spiders, Ldr 20, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: F1E1D1G1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
352
[[page 353]]
Anansi Gold 280, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Stealth 40, PR +5, Spy, Heretic 1, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag: D1N1G2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Black Sorcerer Gold 325, Res 6, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 12, FS, PR +5, Ldr 30, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 60,
Mag: F2E2D1G1?1, Wpn: Bane Blade
Machaka, recruitable units
Pygmy Gold 5, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 4, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 6, Str 4, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 7, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Machaka Militia Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Spear
Machaka Archer Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Machaka Warrior Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Machaka Warrior Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Wpn: Machaka Spear
Spider Archer Gold 12, Res 4, Rec 20 (can be recruited in the capital and all forests)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Wpn: Dagger, Poison Bow
Machaka Hoplite Gold 14, Res 27, Rec 18
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Machaka Spear
Spider Warrior Gold 20, Res 36, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 19, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, Ambidex 1, DV 50, Wpn: Falchion,
Dagger
Spider Rider Gold 25, Res 4, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Spear, Short Bow, Mount: Great Spider
Spider Knight Gold 30, Res 25, Rec 21
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Spear, Mount: Great Spider
Black Hunter Gold 100, Res 36, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 20, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Wpn: Lance, Falchion, Mount: Hunter
Spider
Machaka, mount stats
Great Spider
HP 26, Prot 14, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, FS, PR +15, Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Web, Web Spit
Hunter Spider
HP 55, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 22, MM 22, FS, Sacr, PR +15, Smart 100, Wpn: Venomous Fangs,
Web
353
[[page 354]]
Phaeacia, Isle of the Dark Ships
Phaeacia is an island queendom of dark-skinned men of great stature, the Colossi. Their fabled Dark Ships traverse the
seas without oars or captains. Once a colony of Berytos, the island flourished and became rich and influential, known for
its traders, craftsmen and marvelous shipwrights. When Berytos was destroyed by the armies of Arcoscephale the island
of Phaeacia was able to stave off the conquerors thanks to ample tributes and its remote location. The queendom has since grown in
power and influence. Their traders and explorers have traveled to the far reaches of the world and brought one of the world's greatest
marvels back to Phaeacia, a sapling of the golden tree of the blessed gardens of the Hesperides. Now most inhabitants of Phaeacia live
unnaturally long and blissful lives detached from the strife of the world beyond their island. Phaeacia is also the home of giants descendant
of Mekone. When the Gigantes’ futile war upon gods came to a disastrous end, the Gigantes that did not join the armies of the God-slayer
fled to Black Korkyra, an inhospitable island of the Phaeacian archipelago. The king of the Gigantes married the Colossi queen of Phaeacia
and their daughters have ruled the island ever since. Most nobles of the island trace a legacy to the Berytian Colossi as well as to the
Gigantes of Mekone. There are also a few of the pure blooded Gigantes remaining on Black Korkyra. Upholding the old bargain they arrive
each spring to pledge the queen their allegiance. They are not cursed as their Phlegran kin and retain some of their former glory.
Race: Humans and Colossi. Starts on an extra rich island if possible. Ocean sailing, trace income across oceans, income bonus in coastal castles. Prefers 
Heat scale +1
Military: Human and Colossi infantry. Can recruit special mages in coastal castles. A few Gigantes arrive yearly.
Magic: Air, Water, Astral, Glamour, some Earth.
Priests: Few of medium power
Dominion: All commanders can use the dark vessels to cross oceans between two provinces with the Pretender's dominion.
Scales & Blesses: Productivity limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Fortified City
Phaeacia, recruitable commanders
Phaeacian Scout Gold 40, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 55, Army Sail, Ship Size 3,
Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Phaeacian Captain Gold 75, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 75, Wpn: Short
Sword
Phaeacian Priest Gold 75, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 10, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Dagger
Mage Pilot Gold 110, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Army Sail, Ship Size 3, Ldr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag:
A1W1, Wpn: Dagger
Colossi Weaver Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 20, Forge Bonus 1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
A1S1?1, Wpn: Fist
Colossi Storm Captain Gold 245, Res 34, Rec 2
HP 24, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 18, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Ldr 100, MagLdr
30, Mag: A2W1, Wpn: Short Sword
Prince Consort Gold 485, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 24, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 11, Str 16, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag: A3W2H1?1,
Wpn: Fist
Colossi Queen Gold 515, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 1, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 20, Sacr, Ldr 100, MagLdr 80, Mag:
A2W2S1G1H2?1, Wpn: Fist
Wind Caller Gold 240, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Ldr 50, MagLdr 40, Mag:
A2W1?1, Wpn: Dagger
354
[[page 355]]
Phaeacia, recruitable units
Phaeacian Militia Gold 7, Res 5, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Wpn: Spear
Phaeacian Archer Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 11
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Phaeacian Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 11
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Phaeacian Infantry Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 11
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword
Phaeacian Heavy Infantry Gold 12, Res 26, Rec 16
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword
Colossi Heavy Infantry Gold 20, Res 34, Rec 13
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 18, Wpn: Short Sword
Colossi Light Infantry Gold 20, Res 11, Rec 13
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 20, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Orichalcum Guard Gold 40, Res 47, Rec 27 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 24, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 18, Sacr, Wpn: Orichalcum Sword
355
[[page 356]]
Vanheim, Arrival of Man
Vanheim is a land of misty moors and bitter forests. Humans compose most of the population, but the rulers of the land belong to a
tall and innately magical race known as the Vanir. The Vanir once fought the giants of Jotunheim, but with the coming of man, they
have turned their attention elsewhere. Now only a precious few of the Vanir remain and humans are no longer slaves. Humans
compose the basic infantry units of Vanheim. The Vanir have blessed some loyal humans with superior fighting skills and the ability to enter a state of
wild rage or wolven shape. The Vanir are masters of illusion who fight while mounted on exceptionally fast horses. Female Vanir are called Valkyries
and have the ability to fly. This ability was a gift from a dead god who used them as messengers of death. During those days, blood was sacrificed. The
old ways have not been used in ages, but still the oldest of the Vanir remember how to sate nature with blood. The Vanir are very skilled sailors and can
sail the oceans.
Race: Ocean sailing, trace income across oceans, flying troops, illusions, prefers Cold scale +1
Military: Heavy infantry, skinshifters, Valkyries, berserkers, Vanir
Magic: Air, Glamour, Earth, Blood, some Fire and Death
Priests: Average, can perform blood sacrifices
Buildings: Standard Forts
Vanheim, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Herse Gold 55, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Vanherse Gold 235, Res 16, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 4, Ldr
75, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1G1H1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Vanjarl Gold 440, Res 18, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 5, Ldr
100, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: A2G1B1H2, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Dwarven Smith Gold 195, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, MS, Master Smith 1, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag:
E2?1, Wpn: Hammer
Vanadrott Gold 595, Res 19, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 5, Ldr
150, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 60, Mag: A2G2B1H2?1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Vanheim, recruitable units
Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Hirdman Gold 12, Res 20, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Spear
Hirdman Gold 12, Res 22, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword
Einhere Gold 25, Res 21, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 12, Ambidex 1, Berserker +5, Wpn: Broad Sword, Axe
Skinshifter Gold 25, Res 7, Rec 36
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Regen 10%, Wpn: Great Sword
Fay Boar Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 30 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, FS, Trample, Supply 100, Wpn: Gore
Valkyrie Gold 45, Res 15, Rec 29 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 20, Fly, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, SpSi, Wpn: Light Lance
Van Gold 60, Res 16, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 19, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Rider 3, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount:
Fay Horse
Vanheim, mount stats
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn: Hoof
356
[[page 357]]
Vanarus, Land of the Chuds
Rus is a land of harsh winters and short summers. When the Vanir arrived the land was inhabited by humans and Chudes,
an exalted race of great strength and beauty. The Chudes and the humans had intermingled and neither race dominated
the other. The Vanir came as explorers and traders, but conflict over a sacred site led to war. The Vanir were victorious
and founded the city of Novgård at the ancient site. The Chudes and the humans of Rus joined causes and tried to drive the Vanir out, but
the humans were weak and easily tricked by the illusions and magic of the Vanir. Soon the Chudes found themselves at war with Vanir as
well as their former human allies. Then arrived the Black Knights of Ulm. The former conflict between Vanir and Chudes ended as the
three peoples of Rus rallied under Novgård to defend their land. When the Ulmic threat was averted, a kingdom had formed under the
rulership of the Vanir. Humans comprise most of the Vanarusian population. A large portion are Chudes and a precious few are Vanir.
Most of the Vanarusian armies are human infantry. The elites of the kingdom are mighty Chudes and Vanir. The peoples of Vanarus prefer
a cold climate.
Race: Humans, Chudes and Vanir. All Vanarusian peoples have partial cold resistance and prefer Cold scale +2.
Military: Human medium infantry, Chud hirdmen and skinshifters, sacred Van infantry.
Magic: Air, some skills in all other paths except Astral, summonable beings of Rus.
Priests: Medium, but expensive and few. Can perform blood sacrifices.
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Vanarus, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 60, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short
Bow
Vanarusian Herse Gold 55, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, CR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Vanarusian Jarl Gold 125, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Vanarusian Gode Gold 65, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Axe
Chud Jarl Gold 170, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 19, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Vanarusian Sage Gold 190, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Research +4, CR +5, Ldr 20, MagLdr 30, Mag: A1?2,
Wpn: Dagger
Vanabog Gold 520, Res 20, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 15, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 20, Prec 14, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 12, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Rider 4, Ldr 150,
UndLdr 60, MagLdr 60, Mag: A2D1G1B1H2?1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Vyedma Gold 190, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in non-fort forests)
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Research -2, CR +5, Ldr 20,
MagLdr 40, Mag: W1E1N1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Vyedun Gold 215, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in non-fort forests)
HP 11, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Research -2, CR +5, Ldr 30,
MagLdr 50, Mag: F1A1E1N1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
357
[[page 358]]
Vanarus, recruitable units
Vanarusian Archer Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Vanarusian Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Vanarusian Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Vanarusian Hirdman Gold 12, Res 17, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Vanarusian Hirdman Gold 12, Res 17, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Vanarusian Hirdman Gold 12, Res 19, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Vanarusian Berserker Gold 15, Res 17, Rec 21
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Berserker +2, Wpn:
Broad Sword, Axe
Chud Hirdman Gold 35, Res 21, Rec 28
HP 17, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, Ambidex 2, CR +5, Berserker +2, Wpn:
Broad Sword, Axe
Chud Skinshifter Gold 40, Res 5, Rec 33 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 13, MM 16, FS, MS, Recup, CR +5, Berserker +1, Wpn:
Battleaxe
Oath-Bound Gold 35, Res 22, Rec 25 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 12, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, CR +5, Wpn:
Broad Sword
Vanarus, mount stats
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn:
Hoof
358
[[page 359]]
Jotunheim, Iron Woods
Jotunheim is a land of bitter winters and cool summers. It is the home of the Jotuns, a race of giants descendant from the
Rimtursar, frost giants of godlike powers sprung from glacial ice at the dawn of time. These primordial giants were hunted
and slain by a God of Thunder. Thunder and lightning still recognize their old quarry and the Jotuns greatly fear the
wielders of lightning bolts. Jotuns are stronger and tougher than other giant races and they are almost impervious to the cold of winter.
Jotunheim has no king and is ruled by several Jarls who rarely join forces. In the heart of Jotunheim lies an ancient Forest of Iron and Ice.
Here live the Jarnvidjur, Gygjas from an earlier era, endowed with unequaled sorcerous powers. They are served by the Vaettir, who are
small, wicked goblins of the Jotun woodlands. The Vaettir rarely venture outside the woodlands, but do join the armies of Jotunheim when
the Gygjas bid them to. The people of Jotunheim prefer to live in very cold provinces.
Race: Cold resistant, prefers Cold scale +2
Military: Giant infantry, Vaettir, and Wolf Riders
Magic: Water, Blood, Death, Glamour, Astral and Nature
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts, forts reduce cold scale deaths by 1 step
Jotunheim, recruitable commanders
Jotun Scout Gold 60, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 36, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear,
Javelin
Chief Gold 65, Res 6, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +2, Ldr 50, Wpn: Short
Sword, Mount: Wolf
Jotun Herse Gold 105, Res 41, Rec 1
HP 36, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Jotun Gode Gold 150, Res 19, Rec 2
HP 36, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Jotun Jarl Gold 180, Res 41, Rec 1
HP 40, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Vaetti Hag Gold 60, Res 3, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 7, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 8, Def 4, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 6, FS, Stealth 40, Research -2, CR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: ?1,
Wpn: Slap
Gygja Gold 230, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 30, Prot 9, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 17, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, SR -5, CR +15, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 50, UndLdr 60,
MagLdr 30, Mag: D1G1B1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Jotun Skratti Gold 360, Res 3, Rec 4
HP 37, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 15, MM 16, FS, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 50,
Mag: W2B2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Thrymsgode Gold 340, Res 33, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 44, Prot 16, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 24, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Sacr, Cold pow 1, SR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 1, Chill 5,
Ldr 100, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: W1H2?1, Wpn: Battleaxe
Jarnvidja Gold 500, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 42, Prot 10, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 8, Def 4, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 12, FS, SR -5, CR +15, Adept Cross Breeder +6, Fortune
Teller 10, Ldr 50, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 50, Mag: D1G1B1?3, Wpn: Claw, Slap
359
[[page 360]]
Jotunheim, recruitable units
Vaetti Archer Gold 6, Res 4, Rec 8 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Vaetti Gold 7, Res 5, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Spear
Wolf Rider Gold 15, Res 5, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +1, Rider 1, Wpn: Spear,
Mount: Wolf
Jotun Bondi Gold 20, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 31, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 19, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Jotun Javelinist Gold 30, Res 17, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Jotun Spearman Gold 30, Res 39, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear
Jotun Axeman Gold 30, Res 39, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Jotun Hurler Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Hand Axe,
Boulder
Moose Rider Gold 30, Res 4, Rec 8 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow,
Mount: Moose
Jotun Huskarl Gold 35, Res 21, Rec 20
HP 35, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Godihuskarl Gold 40, Res 31, Rec 24
HP 36, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Jotun Hirdman Gold 50, Res 41, Rec 31
HP 38, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Broad Sword
Ulfhedin Gold 70, Res 5, Rec 38 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 40, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 23, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Regen 10%, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear
Thrymshirding Gold 100, Res 43, Rec 40 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 41, Prot 20, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +25, Ice Prot 1, Chill 3, Wpn:
Broad Sword
Jotunheim, mount stats
Wolf
HP 8, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bite
Moose
HP 38, Prot 6, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 16, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 22, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Kick, Antlers
360
[[page 361]]
Nidavangr, Bear, Wolf and Crow
Nidavangr is a land of windswept moors and frozen mountains. This cold and inhospitable land once belonged to the
Jotuns or perhaps the Vanir, but it was conquered and settled by strong and fierce men in ages past. Ever since they have
fought bitter wars with the former inhabitants of the land. Centuries of war have tempered the will and the ways of the
Nidings of Nidavangr. Men as well as women are taught to fight at an early age and failure to survive combat or the harsh climate is more
prevalent than dying from disease or old age. To most Nidings, death in a bed is a failure of life as a whole. Nidavangr is composed of three
clans, named after their totemic animals, the Bear, the Wolf and the Crow. The warriors of the clans adopt the battle tactics of their totem.
The clans are ruled by Jarls, but it is the Seithberenders, the clan shamans, who are the true masters of Nidavangr and the ones who
perform the Nidalögning, Nidbath, on the sacred warriors of the Jarldom. The Nidbathed are ghastly warriors who are not even stopped
by death. Should a Nidbathed be killed he rises again, and continues to fight, for he has several lives. Out of necessity, the perpetual
conflict with the Vanir has made the Nidings search for ways to avoid the effects of glamour in their lands. And so the Awakening God
taught the clan shamans the art of seith and how to scry their lands for that which cannot be seen.
Race: Humans of barbarian descent, partial cold resistance, prefers Cold scale +2.
Military: Some stealthy raiding infantry, berserking infantry, semi-immortal sacreds.
Magic: Death, Astral, Air, Nature, Water and some Earth and Blood.
Priests: Weak, can perform blood sacrifices.
Dominion: Scry (accurate and automatic military reports inside dominion)
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Cold limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 300
Nidavangr, recruitable commanders
Crow Clan Scout Gold 35, Res 6, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 13, Prot 8, MR 8, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger,
Short Bow
Bear Clan Cub-Mother Gold 35, Res 16, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 15, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, CR +5, Berserker +3, Ldr 50,
Wpn: Battleaxe
Nidherse Gold 60, Res 22, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +5,
Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Nidajarl Gold 95, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, FS, MS, CR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Seithberender Apprentice Gold 75, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, Research -2, CR +5, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 10, Mag: ?1, Wpn: Dagger
Bear Clan Seithberender Gold 245, Res 3, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30,
Mag: E1N2H1, Wpn: Axe
Wolf Clan Seithberender Gold 245, Res 5, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30,
Mag: W2N1H1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Nidhere Gold 170, Res 12, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Sacr, CR +5, Inspirational +1,
Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Great Sword
Crow Clan Seithberender Gold 490, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 10, MM 12, FS, MS, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 150,
MagLdr 70, Mag: A1S2D2H1?2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
361
[[page 362]]
Nidavangr, recruitable units
Cub-Warrior Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 18, FS, MS, CR +5, Wpn: Axe
Crow Clan Archer Gold 10, Res 8, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 11, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Short Sword,
Short Bow
Wolf Clan Reaver Gold 11, Res 14, Rec 12 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +1, Wpn:
Broad Sword, Javelin
Bear Clan Warrior Gold 12, Res 16, Rec 7 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 14, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, MS, CR +5, Berserker +3, Wpn: Battleaxe
Nidylva Gold 14, Res 12, Rec 18
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Ambidex 1, CR +5, Pillage +1, Wpn:
Short Sword, Short Sword
Nidbathed Gold 45, Res 12, Rec 46 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 8, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Sacr, CR +5, Wpn: Great Sword
362
[[page 363]]
Ys, Morgen Queens
Ker-Ys was a Tuatha city of unrivaled splendor. Its walls of crystal and bronze rose above the shores of Kernou, a former
Marverni province conquered by the Tuatha of Tir na n'Og. Through trade and sorcery it became a city of marvels
inhabited by Tuatha, humans and Merrow, a race of mermen that lived in the seas near Tir na n'Og and Kernou. With the
fall of Tir na n'Og, Dahut, a mighty Tuatha sorceress and queen of the city, hid Ker-Ys beneath the waves, creating a refuge for the
sorceresses of Tir na n'Og. The city became inhabited by Tuatha and their Merrow allies. Living in the enchanted city underneath the
waves transformed the Tuatha and they have turned into Morgen, a superior race of semi-divine beings, who are to the Merrow what the
Tuatha were to men. Ys is an underwater queendom ruled by Morgen. Humans of Kernou ancestry comprise most of the coastal
population.
Race: Humans on land and Merrow under water ruled by the Morgen.
Military: Merrow and human infantry and cavalry. Sacred Morgen elite units. All but the humans are amphibious.
Magic: Glamour, Water, Earth, some Astral, Nature and Fire.
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Luck limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Ys, recruitable commanders
Ysian Scout Gold 40, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 2, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Army Sail 5 size
pnts, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Ysian Commander Gold 60, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 5, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Knight Commander of Ys Gold 125, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 18, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Rider 2, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Bronze Lance, Mount: Kelpie
Ysian Druid Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
W1E1H1?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Morgen Champion Gold 385, Res 34, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 16, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 15, Def 20, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 12, Glamour, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Army Sail 5 size pnts, Rider 4, Ldr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag: W1G1H1, Wpn: Golden Lance, Mount: Armored Morvarc'h
Morgen Princess Gold 515, Res 32, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 13, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 15, Def 20, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 12, Glamour, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Spell
Singer, Army Sail 5 size pnts, Rider 4, Ldr 150, MagLdr 30, Mag: W1G2H2, Wpn: Golden Lance, Mount: Armored Morvarc'h
Morgen Sorceress Gold 585, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Glamour, Sacr, Amph, Stealth 65, DV 50,
Spell Singer, Ldr 60, MagLdr 70, Mag: W2E1G3H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Swanherd Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Animal Awe +1, Inspirational -1, Ldr
50, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Sling
Kernou Chieftain Gold 70, Res 17, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Inspirational +1, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Kernou Druid Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: E1S1H1?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
363
[[page 364]]
Ys, recruitable units
Ysian Militia Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 14, Prot 2, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 12, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ysian Spearman Gold 12, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 2, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ysian Infantry Gold 12, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ysian Man at Arms Gold 15, Res 23, Rec 15
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 5, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Knight of Ys Gold 35, Res 23, Rec 18
HP 16, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Bronze Lance,
Mount: Kelpie
Morvarc'h Knight Gold 115, Res 34, Rec 26 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 16, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 12, Glamour, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Army Sail 5
size pnts, Rider 3, Wpn: Golden Lance, Mount: Armored Morvarc'h
Kernou Warrior Gold 9, Res 18, Rec 7 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Kernou Noble Warrior Gold 12, Res 21, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword
Kernou Cavalry Gold 30, Res 19, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Rider 1, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: War
Horse
Ys, mount stats
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
Kelpie
HP 22, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 30, MM 22, Amph, DV 50, Smart 75, Wpn: Tail Flipper
Armored Morvarc'h
HP 25, Prot 19, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 27, MM 22, Glamour, Sacr, Amph, FR +15, DV 50, Army
Sail 5 size pnts, Smart 100, Wpn: Tail Flipper
364
[[page 365]]
Pelagia, Triton Kings
Pelagia was the first kingdom to form in the deeps. It is a nation of Tritons, humanoid beings with fin-like legs. Ruled by
powerful Triton priest-kings, it dominated much of the seas. After the devastating event that shattered the ocean depths,
Pelagia quickly recovered. R'lyeh was destroyed and reformed under a strange race and Atlantis lost much of its former
power when their basalt cities toppled and their kings were buried under broken pillars. Pelagia on the other hand was never dependent
on the deeper seas and the Fallen Star did not touch their home. The Triton kingdom survived and evolved. The Triton Kings of earlier
times lost much of their priestly authority. Respected, but not worshiped like divine beings, they turned themselves from their lesser kin.
Now they rule in name only, looking inwards and trying to master the secrets of the seas. The tribal divisions of the kingdom have lessened
over time and the Shark Tribe and the Turtle Tribe are now part of the greater Pelagian culture. The mermen and their coastal traders
have found other partners since the destruction of Berytos, but they are still an important part of the Pelagian economy, and they have
brought bronze to the deeps. Now Pelagian soldiers have abandoned the crude armor of earlier times and fight in armor of gleaming
bronze. The earlier contact with Berytos and Therodos has kindled an interest in Telkhine secrets and lore. With the final rest of Therodos
the secrets of the Telkhines have become available to the Pelagian sages.
Race: Underwater
Military: Aquatic Tritons and amphibious mermen. Light infantry, heavy infantry, sacred, aquatic knights
Magic: Water, some Astral, Nature, Air, Earth and Fire. Mages weaker on dry land. Mages can convert water gems into astral pearls
Priests: Medium, weak on dry land
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Productivity limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Pelagia, recruitable commanders
Merman Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Stealth 50, Wpn: Net,
Pearl Spear
Wave Lord Gold 55, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 19, MM 16, Amph, Ldr 75, Wpn: Pearl
Trident
Pelagian Captain Gold 55, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 14, MM 14, Aqua, Ldr 75, Wpn: Pearl
Trident
Amber Clan Noble Gold 110, Res 36, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 18, MM 14, Aqua, Ldr 100, Wpn: Pearl
Trident
Merman Priest Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Amph, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Fist
Amber Clan Priest Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 50, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Mace
Pearl Clan Priest Gold 115, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn:
Coral Club
Pelagian Mermage Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 10, Amph, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
W1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Pelagian Mystic Gold 180, Res 3, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 21, MM 16, Amph, Research +2, Ldr 10, MagLdr
50, Mag: A1W1E1?1, Wpn: Instrument
Pearl Mage Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 16, Aqua, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag:
W2S1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
365
[[page 366]]
Amber Clan Mage Gold 255, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Aqua, Ldr 60, MagLdr 40, Mag:
F1W2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Triton Prince Gold 260, Res 30, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 17, MR 14, Mor 16, Str 13, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 20, MM 14, Sacr, Recup, Aqua, Rider 3, Ldr
150, Wpn: Bronze Lance, Mount: Armored Sacred Hippocampus
Conqueror of the Closed Realm Gold 185, Res 32, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 17, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, Ldr 100, MagLdr
10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Pearl Blade
Triton King Gold 545, Res 7, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 45, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 25, MM 18, Sacr, Aqua, Dominion Summoner
0+ Hippocampus, Ldr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: W4?2, Wpn: Bronze Trident
Merman Commander Gold 55, Res 30, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 16, MM 14, Amph, Ldr 75, Wpn: Bronze
Sword
Daduchos Gold 95, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Research +2, Ldr 20, MagLdr
20, Mag: F1?1, Wpn: Extinguished Torch
Pelagia, recruitable units
Pelagian Militia Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 5
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Spear
Merman Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Wpn: Net, Coral Spear
Pelagian Soldier Gold 10, Res 21, Rec 9
HP 15, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 16, MM 16, Aqua, Wpn: Short Bronze
Trident
Wave Warrior Gold 13, Res 20, Rec 16
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 19, MM 16, Amph, Wpn: Bronze Trident
Coral Clan Hoplite Gold 13, Res 27, Rec 16
HP 16, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 14, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Long Spear
Amber Clan Guard Gold 14, Res 35, Rec 18
HP 16, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 18, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Short Bronze
Trident
Champion of the Closed Realm Gold 23, Res 30, Rec 27 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 17, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, Wpn: Short Sword
Knight of the Deeps Gold 70, Res 23, Rec 33 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 17, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 20, MM 14, Sacr, Recup, Aqua, Rider 2, Wpn:
Bronze Lance, Mount: Armored Sacred Hippocampus
Merman Hoplite Gold 13, Res 29, Rec 16 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 16, MM 14, Amph, Wpn: Bronze Long Spear
Apostate of the Closed Realm Gold 15, Res 21, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 13, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 19, MM 16, Amph, Wpn: Short Sword,
Javelin
Pelagia, mount stats
Armored Sacred Hippocampus
HP 25, Prot 19, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 27, MM 22, Sacr, Recup, Aqua, Smart 100,
Wpn: Alicorn, Tail Flipper
366
[[page 367]]
Oceania, Mermidons
Oceania is an underwater realm of half-men. Since the Atlantians emerged from the deeps, the half-men have lost more and more of their
former domains. Ravenous Deep Ones have consumed fish and kelp alike. The kelp groves have been desecrated and murky water has
spread in the kelp. Only with the Fall of the Star was the Atlantian onslaught halted. The Starspawns of the Sunken City enslaved the
Atlantians and consumed their will. During the war between Atlantis and R'lyeh, a new God emerged from the depths and the Capricorns
were able to muster their forces. Now it is time to reclaim the deeps and conquer the world. The Capricorns, wild mages of the sea and the shores lead the
nation in the conquest of a sea once theirs. Sirens, mermaids with shapeshifting powers who lure men to watery graves with their beautiful songs, aid them in
conquering the shores.
Race: Underwater
Military: Amphibious half-men. Light infantry, medium infantry, sacred, aphroi ichtycentaurs
Magic: Nature, Water, Glamour, some Air and Earth. Mages weaker on dry land
Priests: Powerful, underwater only
Dominion: +1 turmoil in coastal provinces, +1 order in other provinces
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Growth limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts, temples cost 300
Oceania, recruitable commanders
Ichtysatyr Scout Gold 30, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtysatyr Commander Gold 60, Res 9, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 22, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtycentaur Commander Gold 125, Res 28, Rec 1
HP 20, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 21, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Ldr 100, Wpn: Pearl Trident
Siren Gold 265, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 65, Air Magic -1, Awe +3, MagLdr 40,
Mag: A1W2G2, Wpn: Fist
Aphroi Hierophant Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 26, MM 22, Sacr, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Inspirational +1, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Haliade Gold 480, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Recup, Aqua, Awe +3, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag:
W2N2H2?1, Wpn: Fist, Mount: Sacred Hippocampus
Capricorn Gold 500, Res 6, Rec 4 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 37, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Earth Magic -1, Animal Awe +3,
Gift of Water Breathing 250 size points, Ldr 100, MagLdr 70, Mag: W2E1N4?1, Wpn: Bronze Trident
Aphroi Lord Gold 205, Res 17, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 26, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 21, MM 16, Sacr, Recup, Amph, Inspirational +1, Poison Barbs 5 AN
dmg, Ldr 100, Wpn: Bronze Lance
Oceania, recruitable units
Ichtysatyr Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtysatyr Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 6 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 18, Recup, Amph, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtysatyr Soldier Gold 10, Res 17, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 20, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtysatyr Soldier Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 14 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 22, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Mermidon Gold 15, Res 28, Rec 26
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 18, MM 14, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Short Bronze Trident
Ichtycentaur Gold 30, Res 8, Rec 17
HP 20, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 10, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 25, MM 22, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Bronze Lance
Ichtycentaur Cataphract Gold 35, Res 27, Rec 22
HP 22, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 21, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Wpn: Short Bronze Trident
Ichtytaur Gold 40, Res 6, Rec 12
HP 30, Prot 9, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 17, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 21, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Berserker +2, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Ichtytaur Warrior Gold 50, Res 21, Rec 18
HP 30, Prot 13, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 17, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 19, MM 16, Recup, Amph, Berserker +2, Wpn: Bronze Spear
367
[[page 368]]
Aphroi Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 30 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 24, Prot 12, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 8, CS 21, MM 16, Sacr, Recup, Amph, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn: Bronze
Lance
Oceania, mount stats
Sacred Hippocampus
HP 25, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 30, MM 28, Sacr, Recup, Aqua, Smart 100, Wpn: Alicorn, Tail Flipper
368
[[page 369]]
Atlantis, Kings of the Deep
When the Star fell into the sea, the Basalt City and the Dark Crystal were destroyed, the reign of the Basalt Queens was
ended and the surviving Atlantians reformed the kingdom. Atlantis is an underwater nation of strange beings resembling a
cross between fish, frog and human. Atlantians never stop growing and will live for several hundred years unless killed.
The Atlantian society is organized in a strict hierarchy of size and age. The oldest and most cunning Atlantians are trained as priests or
mages. Because the Atlantians find it difficult to use magic, they often capture human children and train them in magic in the Coral
Towers. The soldiers of Atlantis use spears tipped with living coral shards and wear armor made of coral chunks. The coral is poisonous
and is cultivated solely for purposes of war.
Race: Amphibious
Military: Coral-armed infantry, shamblers, war lobsters, no missile weapons
Magic: Water, Astral, Fire, Earth
Priests: Powerful
Scales & Blesses: Productivity limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Atlantis, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Knife
Shambler Chief Gold 70, Res 2, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 22, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn: Coral Club, Claw
Consort Gold 160, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 12, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg,
Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Coral Glaive
Coral Queen Gold 390, Res 19, Rec 4
HP 31, Prot 18, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 18, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg,
Ldr 200, Mag: H3, Wpn: Coral Knife
Mage of the Deep Gold 230, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 20, Prot 8, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Gift of Water Breathing 15 size
points, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: W2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
King of the Deep Gold 385, Res 5, Rec 4
HP 27, Prot 12, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Amph, DV 100, Gift of Water Breathing 120
size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag: W3?2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Deep Seer Gold 445, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 8, Sacr, Amph, Fortune Teller 15, Gift of Water
Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 50, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3S2H1, Wpn: Coral Knife
Initiate of the Deep Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, PAmph, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: W1, Wpn:
Dagger
Witness of the Deep Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, Fortune Teller 10, Gift of Water
Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: W2S1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
369
[[page 370]]
Atlantis, recruitable units
Atlantian Militia Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Spear
Atlantian Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn:
Coral Spear
Atlantian Shield Bearer Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Spear
Atlantian Infantry Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg,
Wpn: Coral Spear
Reef Warrior Gold 12, Res 11, Rec 13
HP 13, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg,
Wpn: Coral Spear, Coral Tipped Javelin
Coral Guard Gold 15, Res 15, Rec 21
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 6, MM 10, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg,
Wpn: Coral Spear
Coral Guard Gold 15, Res 17, Rec 21
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 7, MM 10, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn:
Coral Glaive
Shambler Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 25
HP 22, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Claw, Claw
Shambler Guard Gold 22, Res 7, Rec 27
HP 22, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Club
War Shambler Gold 25, Res 17, Rec 30
HP 23, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Glaive
Lobster Rider Gold 50, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Coral Spear, Mount:
Giant Lobster
Mother Guard Gold 40, Res 23, Rec 41 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 25, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 12, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN
dmg, Wpn: Coral Glaive
Soldier of the Deep Gold 10, Res 6, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, PAmph, Wpn: Coral Spear
Atlantis, mount stats
Giant Lobster
HP 34, Prot 20, MR 4, Mor 15, Str 20, Att 7, Def 5, Prec 3, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 10, Trample, Aqua, DV 100, Wpn: Pincer
370
[[page 371]]
R'lyeh, Fallen Star
In ages past, a distant star inhabited by a great race of strange, alien beings was struck with an unimaginable catastrophe.
The star fell from the heavens, breaking into tiny shards. One such shard fell through the Spheres and down upon the
world. The shard came to rest on the ocean floor and there a remnant of this great race adapted and survived. They
multiplied and enslaved a race of fishlike humanoids by sheer strength of mind. R'lyeh, the Sunken City, is a mind-defying place built under
the sea with an architecture unlike any known to man. In the halls of R'lyeh the Starspawns, the Great Ones who survived the Fall, plan the
re-emergence of their Great Race. The Starspawns are powerful mages with great knowledge of distant stars and all of the Great Race are
powerful mindcrafters. All coastal forts of R'lyeh have a special well where women can submerge themselves in the hope of being
impregnated by a Great One. However, most will be taken by Deep Ones instead, and the women's offspring will be strange, fishlike
humanoids instead of the noble Starchildren they wanted. These half-human hybrids are usually devoted to the cause of putting mankind
below the sea and often join the army of R'lyeh free of charge.
Race: Underwater
Military: Atlantian and Oceanian slaves, hybrids, Illithids
Magic: Astral, Water, Earth, some Glamour and Nature
Priests: Average, can summon Void Beings
Scales & Blesses: Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
R'lyeh, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Knife
Traitor Prince Gold 110, Res 43, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 21, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn: Meteorite Trident
Illithid Lord Gold 110, Res 42, Rec 1
HP 30, Prot 17, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 14, Magic, Amph, BlR, TM +2, SpSi, Void Sanity 10,
Ldr 50, MagLdr 50, Wpn: Meteorite Trident, Mind Blast
Slave Priest Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Amph, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Star Child Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 14, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Amph, Stealth 55, BlR, SpSi, Assassin, Patience
+2, Void Sanity 5, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1, Wpn: Meteorite Dagger, Mind Blast
Slave Mage Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 16, Amph, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: W2S1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Starspawn Gold 385, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 30, Prot 5, MR 18, Mor 9, Str 16, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Amph, BlR, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Ldr
10, MagLdr 110, Mag: W1S2H2?1, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast
Starspawn Gold 410, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 26, Prot 5, MR 20, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, Magic, Amph, BlR, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 190, Mag: W1S3?2, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast
Hybrid Commander Gold 70, Res 19, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 16, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 14, Amph, SpSi, Ldr 75, MagLdr 10, Wpn: Bronze
Trident, Mind Blast
371
[[page 372]]
R'lyeh, recruitable units
Lobo Guard Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 14, Magic, Mind, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Claw
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Wpn: Net, Stone Spear
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 6
HP 15, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 16, Aqua, Wpn: Stone Spear
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 6
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 21, MM 16, Amph, Wpn: Stone Spear
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 6
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Meteorite Guard Gold 13, Res 33, Rec 16
HP 14, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 5, MM 8, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Meteorite Trident
Shambler Thrall Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 22
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 4, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Claw
Crab Hybrid Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 33
HP 25, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Aqua, DV 50, Wpn: Pincer, Pincer
Illithid Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 37
HP 28, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, Magic, Amph, BlR, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Wpn: Life
Drain, Mind Blast
Illithid Soldier Gold 50, Res 42, Rec 37
HP 28, Prot 17, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 14, Magic, Amph, BlR, DV 100, SpSi, Void Sanity 10,
Wpn: Meteorite Trident, Mind Blast
Hybrid Gold 12, Res 3, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 13, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Amph, SpSi, Wpn: Spear, Tentacle
Hybrid Trooper Gold 13, Res 6, Rec 24 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 13, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 14, Amph, SpSi, Wpn: Spear, Tentacle
372
[[page 373]]
Arcoscephale, Sibylline Guidance
Arcoscephale is an old kingdom that once ruled much of the known world. With the fall of the Old Kingdom centuries ago,
tradition was the only thing that remained to the population. Mystics and priestesses of the old cult still serve the kings of
Arcoscephale. The infantry and cavalry are still hopelessly archaic, but the Awakening of the New God has brought some
changes. Some traditions have been abandoned and the cavalry has been improved. Skilled and lightly armed phalangites are starting to
replace the heavier hoplites and the cardaces. Although the wise Astrologers who aided past kings were killed or disbanded, a new breed
of seeresses called the Sibyls has appeared. The Sibyls offer great help in maneuvering the once-mighty kingdom to a powerful platform
for the Awakening God. Priestesses with great knowledge of healing are trained in ancient temples built during the peak of the Old
Kingdom. The priestesses are able to scry upon enemy troops and provinces that are located within the God's Dominion. The former
conquest of the known world has led to an acceptance of strange cultures and beliefs. The Arcoscephalian population are quick to adopt
foreign cults, but only to incorporate them into their own belief system. The Awakening God is viewed as the Master of All and all other
gods are just aspects of the Great One. Temples and religious sites of other faiths are converted and the faith of the Awakening One is
imposed upon newly conquered lands.
Race: Humans
Military: Heavy spear-armed infantry, elephants, companion cavalry, ape warriors
Magic: Astral, Nature, Fire, Earth, Water, Death and some Glamour
Priests: Average, healing
Dominion: Scry (accurate and automatic military reports inside dominion)
Syncretism: Enemy temples are not razed, but converted if a priest is in the army. God starts with one additional divine title.
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, labs cost 300
Arcoscephale, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Bronze Spear,
Short Bow
Hypaspist Commander Gold 95, Res 25, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 100, Wpn: Spear
Hoplite Commander Gold 105, Res 31, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 14, Ldr 100, Wpn: Long Spear
Phalangite Commander Gold 105, Res 20, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, Ldr 100, Wpn: Long Spear
Agema Commander Gold 145, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 19, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 20, Inspirational +1, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Cataphracted War Horse
Strategos Gold 150, Res 30, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 10, Ldr 150, Wpn: Short Sword
Neokoros Gold 155, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Healing 1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: N1H1,
Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Orphic Mystic Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Spell Singer, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 40,
Mag: D1N1G1?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Mystic Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Research +1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: S1?2,
Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Panageis Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Healing 2, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10,
Mag: N1H2?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Cerulean Commander Gold 105, Res 22, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 23, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
373
[[page 374]]
Sibyl Gold 320, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 7, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, SpSi, Fortune Teller 20, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50,
MagLdr 50, Mag: S2N1H2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Arcoscephale, recruitable units
Slinger Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Peltast Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Hoplite Gold 13, Res 31, Rec 16
HP 11, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 14, Wpn: Long Spear
Phalangite Gold 13, Res 20, Rec 16
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Long Spear
Hypaspist Gold 16, Res 25, Rec 23
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 16, Wpn: Spear
Cerulean Warrior Gold 18, Res 18, Rec 10 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 13, Str 15, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Mace
Agema Companion Gold 40, Res 26, Rec 31
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 20, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount:
Cataphracted War Horse
Elephant Rider Gold 100, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Small Hammer, Mount: War Elephant,
Coriders: 2 * Elephant Spearmen
Heart Companion Gold 20, Res 31, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 8, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Long Spear
Arcoscephale, mount stats
Cataphracted War Horse
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 18, Wpn: Hoof
War Elephant
HP 64, Prot 18, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 18, Trample, Wpn: Tusk
374
[[page 375]]
Phlegra, Sleeping Giants
Phlegra is a kingdom of human slaves living in constant terror of the monstrous giants that once claimed the lands as
theirs. For centuries the giants have been absent and only memories of their tyranny remain. Most of the Phlegran
population are human slaves and slave masters dominated by a warrior-caste of Younger Cyclopes, previously living
pastoral lives on the slopes of the Phlegran hills. The Tyrants who once ruled the land were descendants of the Gigantes of Mekone, who
made war upon the gods of men. Punished for their sins the Gigantes were imprisoned and cursed with monstrous appearance. Those who
avoided imprisonment became Tyrants and rulers of Phlegra and formed a slave kingdom with the aid of human servants. But the Tyrants
destroyed each other and the very lands they ruled. Slowly their numbers and influence dwindled and their servants made themselves
rulers in all but name. Now human slave masters rule the kingdom in the name of absent Tyrants, hoping that the sleeping giants never
wake up.
Race: Humans and Younger Cyclopes. Monstrous imprisoned Laestrygonians will eventually break free
Military: Few but mighty Cyclope Soldiers. Mostly human slave soldiers led by taskmasters. No sacred troops
Magic: Fire, Earth, and some Death, Water, Air and Astral. Arcane Slave Communions. Cyclope Smiths
Priests: Weak and few
Dominion: Increases unrest
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Giant Fort
Phlegra, recruitable commanders
Phlegran Commander Gold 60, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, TM +2, Ldr 50, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Cyclope Commander Gold 105, Res 83, Rec 1
HP 47, Prot 22, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 24, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 7, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 14, TM +2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Cyclope
Sword, Javelin
Phlegran Cataphract Commander Gold 135, Res 33, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 18, MM 18, MS, TM +3, Rider 3, Ldr 100,
Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Cataphracted Mouflon
Phlegran Priest Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Dagger
Shackled Mage Gold 95, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 6, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Research -2, MagLdr 10, Mag: ?1,
Wpn: Fist
Phlegran Oppressor Gold 160, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, TM +2, Ldr 60, MagLdr 30, Mag:
F1E1?1, Wpn: Fist
Oppressor General Gold 185, Res 21, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 14, TM +2, Ldr 100, MagLdr 70,
Mag: E1?1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Cyclope Smith Gold 335, Res 3, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 63, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 26, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 22, MS, Master Smith 1, FR +15,
Resource Bonus 20, Ldr 60, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1E1?1, Wpn: Maul
Oppressor Archon Gold 470, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 3, Prec 11, Enc 8, CS 10, MM 10, Sacr, TM +2, Ldr 70, MagLdr 90,
Mag: F1A1W1E1S1H2?2, Wpn: Fist
375
[[page 376]]
Phlegra, recruitable units
Helote Archer Gold 8, Res 5, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 6, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Helote Crossbowman Gold 8, Res 26, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 6, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword, Crossbow
Helote Soldier Gold 8, Res 26, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword
Iron Guard Gold 15, Res 35, Rec 16 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 9, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 9, MM 12, Magic, Morale +8, Wpn: Broad Sword
Mouflon Cataphract Gold 40, Res 33, Rec 16
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 18, MS, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword,
Mount: Cataphracted Mouflon
Cyclope Soldier Gold 40, Res 67, Rec 17 (max 4/month)
HP 42, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 7, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, Wpn: Cyclope Spear, Javelin
Phlegra, mount stats
Cataphracted Mouflon
HP 25, Prot 19, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 16, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 16, MM 18, MS, Supply 5, CR +5, Wpn: Head Butt
376
[[page 377]]
Pangaea, New Era
Pangaea is a woodland nation inhabited by wild beings connected with nature. Halfmen such as satyrs, centaurs and minotaurs serve the
lords of the Sacred Groves deep in the forests. In ancient times, the woods covered much of the world, but that has changed. Civilization
has finally reached the forests of Pangaea. The old ways are giving way to new traditions. Archaic weapons are replaced by new ones of
tempered steel. Ancient cultic practices have all but disappeared and human females once attracted to the wild dances and songs no longer
seek the revelry of the Panic tunes.
Race: Forest beings, stealthy troops, troops will heal battle afflictions
Military: Infantry composed of minotaurs, centaurs, satyrs and sacred dryads, centaur cataphracts
Magic: Magical Tunes, Nature, Earth, some Astral, Water and Air
Priests: Weak
Buildings: Primitive Forts, temples cost 300
Pangaea, recruitable commanders
Black Harpy Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 60, Ldr 10, Wpn: Talons, Talons
Satyr Commander Gold 60, Res 24, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Spear
Minotaur Commander Gold 95, Res 34, Rec 1
HP 25, Prot 19, MR 10, Mor 16, Str 17, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Recup, Trample, Ldr 75, Wpn: Battleaxe
Cataphract Commander Gold 115, Res 35, Rec 1
HP 21, Prot 20, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 7, CS 20, MM 16, FS, Recup, Ldr 100, Wpn: Light Lance, Hoof
Keeper of Traditions Gold 215, Res 34, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Recup, Trample, Berserker +3, Ldr 100, Mag: H1,
Wpn: Battleaxe
Centaur Sage Gold 125, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 30, MM 22, FS, Recup, Research +2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff, Hoof
Dryad Gold 225, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Sacr, Recup, Stealth 60, Awe +3, Seduction , Ldr 50,
MagLdr 10, Mag: N1H1, Wpn: Hoof
Pan Gold 355, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 27, Prot 4, MR 17, Mor 16, Str 16, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 15, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Animal Awe +1, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag:
E2N3, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Pangaea, recruitable units
Harpy Gold 7, Res 1, Rec 3
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, Fly, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Talons, Talons
Stymphalian Bird Gold 8, Res 15, Rec 3
HP 7, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 2, MM 26, FS, Fly, Recup, Wpn: Copper Feathers, Talons, Talons
Satyr Sneak Gold 9, Res 3, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 60, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Satyr Gold 9, Res 4, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Satyr Gold 9, Res 4, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Recup, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Satyr Sniper Gold 12, Res 24, Rec 19
HP 14, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Recup, Wpn: Hoof, Crossbow
Satyr Hoplite Gold 14, Res 25, Rec 24
HP 14, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Recup, Wpn: Spear
Centauride Crossbow Gold 30, Res 32, Rec 17
HP 18, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 13, Enc 6, CS 29, MM 16, FS, Recup, Wpn: Short Sword, Hoof, Crossbow
Centaur Cataphract Gold 35, Res 35, Rec 21
HP 20, Prot 20, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 7, CS 20, MM 16, FS, Recup, Wpn: Light Lance, Hoof
Minotaur Soldier Gold 40, Res 27, Rec 12
HP 23, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, FS, Recup, Trample, Wpn: Battleaxe
Grove Guard Gold 50, Res 34, Rec 18
HP 25, Prot 19, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Recup, Trample, Berserker +3, Wpn: Battleaxe
Dryad Hoplite Gold 30, Res 21, Rec 12 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Recup, Awe +2, Wpn: Bronze Spear
377
[[page 378]]
Pythium, Serpent Cult
The Emerald Empire of Pythium was a splinter empire of the great Empire of Ermor. As dark arts were practiced in the
heart of the Empire, the stars warned the Theurgs of Pythia to flee the impending doom. They led Pythia away from the
falling Empire and formed an imperial theocracy under their wise rule. As Ermor slowly crumbled, the Emerald Empire
struggled to keep the old Ermorian provinces under their rule. From these provinces came strange cults and foreign beliefs. Just as Ermor
was seduced by the C'tissian cults of Death, the Pythians were fascinated by the exotic practices of the lizardmen. With shadows lingering
near, the C'tissian cults were particularly seductive. No other people had such knowledge of Death and the dead. The popularity of the
Theurgs diminished and the Serpent Cult gradually replaced the old state cult. But the Serpent Cult was not the only foreign cult that got a
foothold in the Empire. Heretical mystery cults flourish and threaten to cast the Empire into disorder. Pythium uses a reformed
legionnaire army with frontier soldiers and mobile field troops. The Serpent Cataphracts have received special status and they have
become the most respected force in the Empire.
Race: Humans
Military: Heavy legionnaires, sacred serpent cataphracts, gladiators, sacred hydras
Magic: Access to weak mages of all paths, with stronger mages of Nature
Priests: Weak, one available priest of average level. Heretical mystics who lower Dominion.
Bless bonuses: Poison Resistance +10
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Pythium, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Serpent Assassin Gold 105, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Stealth 60, PR +15, Assassin, Patience +2,
Scale Walls, Patrol 25, Wpn: Serpent Kryss
Centurion Gold 95, Res 22, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Tribuni Gold 110, Res 30, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 16, Inspirational +1, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Magister Militum Gold 150, Res 22, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 150, Wpn: Broad Sword
Battle Deacon Gold 90, Res 19, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Mace
Serpent Acolyte Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: N1H1, Wpn:
Bronze Dagger
Renata Gold 210, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: W1D1?1,
Wpn: Sacred Pitcher, Fist
Renatus Gold 210, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: W1D1?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Serpent Lord Gold 130, Res 27, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 14, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Rider 3, Ldr 50, Wpn: Light
Lance, Mount: Armored Serpent
Theurg Gold 190, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1H1?1, Wpn:
Mace
Serpent Priest Gold 370, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, Sacr, PR +15, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag:
W1N2H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
378
[[page 379]]
Heliodromus Gold 125, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Research -2, Heat pow 1, FR +5, Heretic 2,
MagLdr 20, Mag: F1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Mystes Gold 55, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Research -2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: N1, Wpn: Fist
Reveler Gold 70, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Research -4, Heretic 3, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: N1,
Wpn: Fist
Leo Gold 110, Res 22, Rec 1 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 18, Research -2, Heat pow 1, FR +5, Heretic 1, Ldr
110, MagLdr 10, Mag: F1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Epoptes Gold 155, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Research -2, Supply 30, Disease Healing 1, Heretic 2,
Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: N1?1, Wpn: Twig
Pythium, recruitable units
Milite Gold 8, Res 9, Rec 5 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Limitane Gold 8, Res 26, Rec 5 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 9, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Retiarius Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Net, Trident
Gladiator Gold 10, Res 1, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Flail
Limitane Primani Gold 10, Res 30, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 10, Wpn: Broad Sword
Comitatense Gold 15, Res 26, Rec 21
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Palatine Gold 20, Res 30, Rec 31
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 16, Wpn: Broad Sword
Limitane Standard Gold 20, Res 26, Rec 21 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Standard Gold 30, Res 26, Rec 21
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 18, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Hydra Hatchling Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 15 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 25, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR
+25, Wpn: Lesser Heads, Great Head
Serpent Cataphract Gold 55, Res 27, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance,
Mount: Armored Serpent
Hydra Gold 210, Res 1, Rec 50 (max 1/month) (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 80, Prot 8, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 14, Def 12, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 7, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Recup, BlR, PiR, Regen 10%, FR -10, PR
+25, Fear +5, Wpn: Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Lesser Head, Great Head
Limitane Solaris Gold 14, Res 26, Rec 18 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, FR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Primani Solaris Gold 18, Res 30, Rec 27 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 10, FR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword
Pythium, mount stats
Armored Serpent
HP 28, Prot 19, MR 6, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 13, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 16, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Smart 100, Wpn: Poisonous Bite
379
[[page 380]]
Lemuria, Soul Gates
With the second fall of Ermor, hope finally came to the Scelerian remnants of the ancient empire. The fear of the dead
faded and undead legions were no longer needed. Instead the soulless were put to menial labor. But the Thaumaturgs
turned their attention elsewhere. The common people became ever more dissatisfied. Some soulless slaves still toiled the
land, but with the Thaumaturgs less interested in reanimating slaves for the populace, the common men felt abandoned. Demands were
made that the Thaumaturgs should provide slaves to keep the kingdom going. The conflict escalated and finally, in an act of remarkable
hubris, the Thaumaturgs decided to settle the problem once and for all. In a great ceremony every Thaumaturg in the kingdom joined a
communion and poured their lower souls into a ritual that would open a gate to the underworld, so that the dead willingly might return to
the land of the living as workers and farmers. The ritual succeeded, in a way. The gate opened, but the lower souls of the Thaumaturgs
were ripped apart and swallowed by the gate. And from the gate emerged, not dead servants, but a spectral host of legionnaires and
shadows. Now the land is slowly withering and falling under the dominion of a God of darkness. Ghosts and spectral legions reclaim a land
once theirs and the shattered souls of the former Thaumaturgs are mustering the shadows and memories of a glorious past.
Race: Ghosts and shadows. Do not need supplies, can enter water. Do not recruit regular armies, but summons or reanimates spirits of the dead.
Military: Spectral legionnaires, ghosts, shadows and hordes of dispossessed spirits.
Magic: Death, Astral, and some Air and Water. Increased research in magic lands.
Priests: Powerful. Immortal. All priests can call shadows and spirits.
Dominion: Summons ghosts and shadows. Kills population.
Scales & Blesses: Death limit +2, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts, starts with a Fortified City, temples produce death gems
380
[[page 381]]
Man, Towers of Chelms
The realm of Man is a feudal kingdom. Their kingdom was established by conquering a race of tall and magically powerful
beings known as the Tuatha. When the Tuatha were destroyed, their magic was taken by the Witches of Man. They helped
Man to grow in power and influence, but with the great magic came a great Curse and the Witches dwindled in number
and magic left the kingdom. To contain the Curse, the Old Magic was banned and a scholarly order of Magisters replaced the Witches of
Avalon and their wild ways. The infantry of Man has evolved since the Age of Avalon and the crossbow is common, but knights and
longbowmen still make up a large part of the armies. The Wardens of Avalon have escaped the Curse and are the only remnant of the Old
Ways.
Race: Humans
Military: Infantry, longbowmen, crossbow-equipped heavy infantry, knights, Wardens of Avalon
Magic: Air, Earth, Astral, some Fire and Glamour, rarely Death. Mages' research not affected by Drain scales.
Priests: Average, inquisitors
Scales & Blesses: Drain limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Grand Citadel (Magisters can build better forts)
Man, recruitable commanders
Royal Forester Gold 55, Res 8, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 13, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Stealth 55, Ambidex 1, Patrol 5, Ldr 10,
Wpn: Axe, Axe, Short Bow
Castellan Gold 95, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Judge Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Unhindered Researcher, Patrol 20, Ldr 50,
Wpn: Dagger
Magister of Theology Gold 85, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Dagger
Bishop Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Magister Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Stealth 40, Unhindered Researcher, Siege
Strength +15, Spy, Mason, Ldr 10, MagLdr 10, Mag: ?1, Wpn: Dagger
Magister Arcane Gold 240, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, Unhindered Researcher, Ldr 10, MagLdr 70,
Mag: A2E1S1, Wpn: Dagger
Lord Warden Gold 200, Res 31, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 13, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Ldr 100, MagLdr 10,
Mag: G1H1, Wpn: Great Sword, Crossbow
Man, recruitable units
Spearman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 18, Wpn: Spear
Longspear Gold 10, Res 13, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, Wpn: Long Spear
Axeman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Axe
Heavy Axeman Gold 10, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Axe
Light Archer Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Crossbow
381
[[page 382]]
Tower Guard Gold 12, Res 23, Rec 14
HP 11, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword, Crossbow
Forester Gold 12, Res 7, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Stealth 55, Ambidex 1, Patrol 1, Wpn: Axe,
Dagger, Short Bow
Longbowman Gold 12, Res 11, Rec 14
HP 11, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Short Sword, Long Bow
Defender Gold 16, Res 27, Rec 23
HP 13, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword, Crossbow
Tower Knight Gold 45, Res 32, Rec 25
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount:
Destrier
Warden Gold 26, Res 31, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Wpn: Great Sword, Crossbow
Man, mount stats
Destrier
HP 22, Prot 20, MR 5, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Wpn: Hoof
382
[[page 383]]
Ulm, Black Forest
After years of civil war, the Iron Kingdom crumbled. During the Night of Treason a great Malediction was placed upon the
kingdom. The forests became dark and hostile. Wolves and creatures even worse stalked the land. Slowly the kingdom
recovered, but it was not what it once was. The knightly order was all but destroyed and the Master Smiths had
disappeared. The secrets of blacksteel were forgotten. An order of Black Priests emerged in Ulm in the last days before the civil war. They
formed an Iron Cult, consolidated their position and forbade the use of magic. Magic outside religion was announced to be sacrilegious and
the few surviving Master Smiths were put to the flames. Although magery is forbidden, there are some fortune tellers and members of the
Order of the Illuminated Ones who secretly ply their trade in the arcane.
Race: Stocky humans, production bonus in all castles
Military: Medium infantry, stealthy rangers, knights, ghoul guardians
Magic: Astral, Blood, Earth, some Air, Death, Fire and Glamour.
Priests: Weak, inquisitors
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, forts produce 25% more resources
Ulm, recruitable commanders
Ranger Captain Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Axe,
Crossbow
Commander of Ulm Gold 95, Res 24, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 14, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Black Acolyte Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Dagger
Illuminated One Gold 105, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Stealth 65, Spy, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
S1, Wpn: Fist
Member of the Second Tier Gold 210, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Stealth 75, Spy, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 50, Mag: S2B1, Wpn: Fist
Black Priest Gold 225, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Forge Bonus 1, Inquisitor, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 20, Mag: E1H2?1, Wpn: Maul
Wolfherd Gold 75, Res 2, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Animal Awe +2,
Inspirational -1, Ldr 50, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Sling
Ghoul Commander Gold 150, Res 44, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 22, MR 13, Mor 18, Str 14, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 19, Und, NNEat, PR +25, DV 50, Ldr 50,
UndLdr 100, Wpn: Black Halberd
Hochmeister Gold 195, Res 46, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 23, MR 12, Mor 16, Str 14, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, Sacr, Inquisitor, Rider 2, Ldr 100,
Mag: H1, Wpn: Lance, Morningstar, Mount: Black Destrier
Fortune Teller Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Fortune Teller 15, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag:
S1?1, Wpn: Dagger
383
[[page 384]]
Ulm, recruitable units
Villain Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Mace, Short Bow
Pikeneer Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Pike
Halberdier Gold 10, Res 22, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Halberd
Infantry of Ulm Gold 10, Res 23, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 14, Wpn: Morningstar
Ranger of Ulm Gold 12, Res 8, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Axe, Crossbow
Zweihander Gold 14, Res 36, Rec 18
HP 13, Prot 21, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Great Sword
Ghoul Guardian Gold 20, Res 44, Rec 47 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 22, MR 12, Mor 18, Str 13, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 0, CS 6, MM 19, Und, NNEat, PR +25, DV 50, Wpn: Black Halberd
Black Templar Gold 75, Res 46, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 23, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, Sacr, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Morningstar, Mount:
Black Destrier
Ulm, mount stats
Black Destrier
HP 24, Prot 22, MR 6, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Wpn: Hoof
384
[[page 385]]
Agartha, Ktonian Dead
In dark caverns under the Roots of the Earth a strange kind of one-eyed humanoids once evolved. Untouched by the sun,
they became known to humans as the Pale Ones. When humans first met these pale giants, it was in war. With the
destruction of the false god of the Pale Ones, an ancient Seal was broken and vast powers of destruction were released.
The Pale Ones were almost wiped out of existence and humans could move down into the caverns of Agartha. Here they found fabulous
riches and ancient secrets. The humans replaced the Pale Ones and now all Agarthans are pale-skinned humans with large eyes.
Everything left by the Ancients became subject to worship in Agartha. At first, statues of the Ancients were adored and animated by the
Golem Crafters, but most of the statues were destroyed during the great war and new forms of worship have evolved. The mummified
remains of the now-extinct Pale Ones are worshiped and reanimated by necromancer-priests. While the mummies of Pale Ones are
sacred, the human dead are not treated with the same respect. Used for menial tasks and warfare, the dead of Agartha now walk side by
side with the living.
Race: Humans with limited darkvision. Extra gold and resources in cave forts.
Military: Light and heavy infantry, steel crossbows, cave drake knights.
Magic: Earth, Death, Fire, some Water and Astral
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Productivity limit +1, Death limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Agartha, recruitable commanders
Agarthan Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Dagger,
Short Bow
Cave Captain Gold 95, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn: Short Sword
Gate Lord Gold 150, Res 37, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 21, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 10, CS 5, MM 10, DV 50, Ldr 150, Wpn: Short Sword
Blindlord Gold 200, Res 37, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 21, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 10, CS 5, MM 10, Sacr, Magic, SpSi, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50,
Wpn: Short Sword
Drake Lord Gold 220, Res 35, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, DV 50, Ldr 150, Wpn: Broad Sword,
Mount: Cave Drake
Attendant of the Dead Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag:
E1D1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Ktonian Reanimator Gold 185, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, DV 50, Resource Bonus 10, Retinue 1 , Ldr 50,
UndLdr 150, MagLdr 10, Mag: E1D2, Wpn: Fist
Ktonian Alchemist Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Alchemy Bonus 50, DV 50, Ldr 20, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 40, Mag: F1W1E1?1, Wpn: Fist, Cave Fire Bottle
Servant of the Oracles Gold 260, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20,
Mag: E1D1H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Ktonian Necromancer Gold 415, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 70, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 40,
Mag: F1E2D2H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
385
[[page 386]]
Agartha, recruitable units
Agarthan Heavy Infantry Gold 10, Res 27, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Agarthan Infantry Gold 10, Res 22, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Agarthan Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Agarthan Light Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword, Agarthan
Steel Crossbow
Agarthan Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword, Agarthan
Steel Crossbow
Agarthan Heavy Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 27, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword, Agarthan
Steel Crossbow
Entrance Guard Gold 16, Res 37, Rec 23
HP 14, Prot 21, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 10, CS 5, MM 10, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword
Agarthan Sapper Gold 20, Res 18, Rec 31
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, DV 50, Siege Strength +7, Wpn:
Pick Axe, Cave Fire Bottle
Cave Knight Gold 75, Res 35, Rec 21
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 16, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, DV 50, Wpn: Broad Sword,
Mount: Cave Drake
Blindfighter Gold 26, Res 37, Rec 31
HP 14, Prot 21, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 10, CS 5, MM 10, Sacr, Magic, SpSi, Wpn: Short
Sword
Agartha, mount stats
Cave Drake
HP 58, Prot 22, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 19, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 7, MM 10, MS, DV 50, Smart 100, Wpn: Bite
386
[[page 387]]
Marignon, Conquerors of the Sea
Marignon is a feudal theocracy that rose out of the ashes of Ermor. Through religious austerity and fanaticism the young
kingdom prevailed when death walked the land. When kingdom after kingdom crumbled under the might of the Ashen
Empire, the leaders of Marignon turned to desperate measures. The Grand Masters of the House of Fiery Justice struck a
bargain with infernal forces. Devils started to fill the ranks of the human armies and with time Marignon became dependent on devils to
survive. Devils and the Holy Knights of the Chalice were all that kept death at bay. In a cataclysmic battle the knights fought a great army
of walking dead. Both armies were annihilated, but new Ermorian legions would soon re-emerge from the ashen realm. The Grand Masters
called their Infernal Lords and a host of demons was released upon Eldregate. The Holy Chalice was captured and brought to the House of
Fiery Justice. Ermor was destroyed, but the Infernal Lords demanded continued sacrifice and devil-worship became part of the faith. Imps
are bound as jesters and servants and most noble families have their own imp familiar. Order has returned to the kingdom and Marignon is
slowly turning its interests outwards. Recent developments in shipbuilding and navigation have allowed the priests and nobles of
Marignon to expand the influence of God to distant shores. To bring the True Faith to the heathens has become more important than
hunting heretics at home. Witch Hunters have been replaced by Navigators and Chartmakers who serve under the command of admirals
to spread the might of the kingdom to distant shores.
Race: Humans, Ocean sailing, trace income across oceans
Military: Heavy infantry, crossbows, Flagellants
Magic: Fire, Blood, Glamour, Astral, Earth, Air, some Water and a little Nature
Priests: Powerful, Inquisitors, can perform blood sacrifices
Inquisition: Automatically reduces enemy dominion and spreads own dominion up to 1 in owned provinces
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Productivity limit +1, Bless points +3
Buildings: Standard Forts, starts with a Grand Citadel (Architects can build better forts)
Marignon, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Assassin Gold 85, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 65, Ambidex 2, Assassin, Patience +1,
Army Sail 3 size pnts, Ship Size 3, Wpn: Short Sword, Poison Dagger, Crossbow
Plague Doctor Gold 110, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 16, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Stealth 40, Disease Healing 2, PR +5, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Lieutenant Gold 55, Res 9, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Imp Trainer Gold 55, Res 6, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Retinue 1d6 Imp Pets, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, Wpn:
Short Sword, Crossbow
Captain Gold 75, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Army Sail, Ship Size 6, Ldr 75, Wpn: Falchion
Goetic Captain Gold 90, Res 22, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Army Sail, Ship Size 6, Ldr 75, UndLdr 10, Wpn:
Falchion
Troubadour Gold 110, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Stealth 70, Spy, Seduction , Spell Singer, Ldr 10,
Wpn: Broad Sword
Missionary Gold 75, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Army Sail, Ship Size 6, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Dagger
Diabolist Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 20, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: F1B1, Wpn:
Dagger
Mirror Mage Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: G1?1, Wpn: Fist
387
[[page 388]]
Chartmaker Gold 95, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Army Sail, Ship Size 6, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag:
S1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Inquisitor Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Inquisitor, Patrol 10, Ldr 100, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 10, Mag: H2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Goetic Adept Gold 160, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Ldr 20, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1B1?1, Wpn:
Dagger
Royal Navigator Gold 225, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Army Sail, Ship Size 10, Ldr 50, MagLdr 50, Mag:
A1W1S1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Architect Gold 75, Res 52, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Siege Strength +25, Mason, Ldr 10, Wpn: Instrument
Admiral Gold 140, Res 22, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Army Sail, Ship Size 10, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Master of Mirrors Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: G2?1, Wpn: Magic Sceptre
Royal Alchemist Gold 225, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, Alchemy Bonus 50, Ldr 20, MagLdr 60, Mag:
F1E1S1?1, Wpn: Dagger
High Inquisitor Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 16, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Sacr, Inquisitor, Patrol 15, Ldr 150, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 10, Mag: H3?1, Wpn: Dagger
Goetic Master Gold 370, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 9, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, Sacr, Ldr 30, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 50, Mag: F2B2H1?1,
Wpn: Dagger
Marignon, recruitable units
City Guard Gold 8, Res 10, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Glaive
Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Mace, Crossbow
Pikeneer Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Pike
Halberdier Gold 10, Res 22, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Halberd
Swordsman Gold 10, Res 28, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Great Sword
Palace Guard Gold 20, Res 27, Rec 31
HP 13, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Wpn: Halberd
Royal Guard Gold 20, Res 33, Rec 31
HP 14, Prot 20, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Great Sword
Flagellant Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 5 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 8, Def 4, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Wpn: Flail
Deliverer of Justice Gold 18, Res 23, Rec 18 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Wpn: Short Sword, Crossbow
Hand of Justice Gold 19, Res 27, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, Sacr, Patrol 3, Wpn: Halberd
388
[[page 389]]
Abysia, Blood of Humans
When the Warlocks began their horrible breeding experiments, they unknowingly spelled the doom of Abysia. But it was
not the Demonbreds that posed a threat. The real danger came from the Humanbreds, who were multiplying like vermin
and swarming the kingdom. Now the heat of the Smouldercone is faltering with the declining number of pure Abysians and
magic is seeping from the land. Other sources of magic are needed and the Blood Cult of ancient times is renewed with fervor.
Pureblooded Abysians, now rare, serve as priests and sacred warriors.
Race: Humanbred Abysians. Fire resistance, prefers Heat scale +2, wasteland survival. Death and Growth scales have half the standard effect on income 
and population growth and no effect on supplies.
Military: Light and heavy infantry, axe throwers
Magic: Fire, Blood, Astral, Death, some Earth
Priests: Powerful, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1, Death limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, forts reduce heat scale deaths by 1 step
Abysia, recruitable commanders
Slayer Newt Gold 110, Res 10, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 11, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 12, WS, Sacr, Stealth 65, Ambidex 2, FR
+15, DV 50, Assassin, Patience +2, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Dagger
Abysian Commander Gold 100, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Battleaxe
Slayer Worm Gold 130, Res 10, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 11, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, WS, Sacr, Stealth 60, Ambidex 3, FR +25,
DV 50, Heat 3, Assassin, Patience +2, Mag: H1, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Dagger
Newt Gold 120, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Sacr, FR +15, DV 50, Ldr 60, MagLdr
10, Mag: F1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Sanguine Acolyte Gold 120, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 14, WS, Sacr, FR +15, DV 50, Ldr 50, UndLdr
10, MagLdr 10, Mag: B1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Sanguine Anathemant Gold 295, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 60,
UndLdr 20, MagLdr 30, Mag: F1B2H2, Wpn: Dagger
Anathemant Salamander Gold 295, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 14, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 70,
UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: F2D1H2, Wpn: Dagger
Slayer Anathemant Gold 270, Res 10, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 11, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 10, WS, Sacr, Stealth 60, Ambidex 3, FR +25,
DV 50, Heat 3, Assassin, Patience +3, MagLdr 20, Mag: F1H2?1, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Dagger
Slayer Sanguine Gold 290, Res 10, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 11, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, WS, Sacr, Stealth 60, Temp Blood Slaves
1, Ambidex 3, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Assassin, Patience +3, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 20, Mag: B2H2, Wpn: Athame, Athame
Warlock Apprentice Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 12, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Adept Cross
Breeder +2, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 40, Mag: S1B2, Wpn: Dagger
Warlock Gold 400, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 8, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Adept Cross
Breeder +6, Ldr 10, UndLdr 40, MagLdr 80, Mag: S2B3?1, Wpn: Dagger
Anathemant Dragon Gold 405, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 10, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 80,
UndLdr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: F2D1H3?1, Wpn: Mace
389
[[page 390]]
Abysia, recruitable units
Abysian Light Infantry Gold 12, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Spear
Abysian Light Infantry Gold 12, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Axe
Abysian Heavy Infantry Gold 12, Res 27, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 5, MM 10, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Axe
Abysian Heavy Infantry Gold 12, Res 28, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 9, CS 5, MM 10, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Morningstar
Abysian Heavy Infantry Gold 12, Res 26, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Battleaxe
Abysian Heavy Infantry Gold 12, Res 26, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 5, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Flail
Abysian Axe Thrower Gold 13, Res 11, Rec 10
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Wpn: Axe, Throwing
Axe
Warbred Gold 30, Res 35, Rec 28
HP 22, Prot 18, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, WS, FR +5, DV 50, Berserker +2, Wpn:
Battleaxe
Guardian of the Pyre Gold 30, Res 28, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 17, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 7, Enc 8, CS 5, MM 10, WS, Sacr, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Wpn:
Morningstar
390
[[page 391]]
Ragha, Dual Kingdom
Ragha is a dual kingdom of fire and ice, rage and serenity. Half of the population are Abysian descendants from the isolated colony
of Tur, and half the population are Airyan refugees from Caelum. Tur was a distant and prosperous Abysian colony founded after a
successful military campaign against the giants of Ashdod. But the war with Ashdod had been taxing and the colony was cut off
from the kingdom by a Arcoscephalean campaign through the fertile lands previously conquered from the giants. For centuries Tur was left alone
and an independent kingdom formed. Then came the Caelians. A great host of iceclad warriors descended upon the Turan armies on the plain of
Ragha in the mid of winter. The Turan Shah realized that Tur could not stand up to the Caelians for long. Tur was on the brink of destruction when
the attacks suddenly stopped. Civil war had broken out in Caelum and the campaign was aborted. Instead Caelian refugees and deserters settled
on the plain of Ragha. Airyan Seraphs approached the Turan Shah and peace was negotiated. When the Harab Seraphs of Caelum attacked, the
Airyas were saved by the gryphon riders of Tur. This sealed the truce and a strange alliance was formed. Ragha is now a society of two peoples
united out of necessity. During winter the Airyas reign and during summer the Turans reign. Even faith has evolved to mimic the legacy of the two
peoples. Two different groups of beings are adored and worshiped. But this is starting to change. The One True God has arisen. The peoples of
Ragha suffer less from hot or cold climates than other nations.
Race: Flying, cold resistant, heat resistant, do not suffer as much from heat or cold
Military: Flying units, gryphon riders
Magic: Air, Water, Astral, Fire, Death and Blood
Priests: Average, Guardian spirits, Temples expensive but generate fire gems.
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 1200, temples produce fire gems
Ragha, recruitable commanders
Airya Scout Gold 35, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Stealth 55, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Blade
Paighan-Salar Gold 50, Res 18, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, MS, WS, FR +10, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Airya Spahbed Gold 70, Res 38, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Ice Sword
Turan Spahbed Gold 150, Res 30, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 20, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, MS, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Lance,
Broad Sword, Mount: Nisean War Horse
Airya Shah Gold 180, Res 32, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 12, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Ldr 75, Mag: H1, Wpn: Ice
Sword
Turan Shah Gold 240, Res 25, Rec 1
HP 15, Prot 17, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, MS, WS, Sacr, FR +15, DV 50, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Mag:
H1, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Nisean War Horse
Karapan Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 14, MS, WS, Sacr, FR +15, DV 50, Ldr 20, UndLdr 10, MagLdr
20, Mag: F1H1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Athravan Gold 140, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Sacr, CR +15, Ldr 20, MagLdr 20, Mag: F1H1?1, Wpn: Ice
Knife
Zaotar Gold 295, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, CR +15, Ldr 60, MagLdr 40, Mag: F1A1W1H2?1,
Wpn: Ice Knife
Dastur Gold 300, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 10, MS, WS, Sacr, FR +15, DV 50, Ldr 70, UndLdr 60, MagLdr
30, Mag: F1D1B1H2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Airya Seraph Gold 310, Res 2, Rec 4
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 9, Def 5, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, CR +15, Ldr 60, MagLdr 70, Mag: A3W1S1?1, Wpn: Ice
Knife
Turan Sorcerer Gold 315, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 15, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 11, Def 6, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 8, MS, WS, FR +25, DV 50, Heat 3, Ldr 40, UndLdr 70, MagLdr
50, Mag: F3D1B1?1, Wpn: Dagger
391
[[page 392]]
Zhayedan Spahbed Gold 245, Res 30, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 20, MR 12, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 15, MM 10, MS, WS, Sacr, FR +15, DV 50, Rider 1, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Turan Gryphon
Ragha, recruitable units
Paighan Gold 8, Res 9, Rec 3
HP 12, Prot 9, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, MS, WS, FR +10, DV 50, Wpn: Spear
Airya Archer Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 6, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Wpn: Ice Knife, Composite Bow
Airya Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Lance
Airya Infantry Gold 10, Res 16, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Blade
Turan Infantry Gold 11, Res 19, Rec 8
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, MS, WS, FR +10, DV 50, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Turan Heavy Infantry Gold 13, Res 22, Rec 10
HP 13, Prot 16, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, MS, WS, FR +10, DV 50, Wpn: Broad Sword
Turan Horse Archer Gold 27, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 14, MS, WS, FR +10, DV 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Spear,
Composite Bow, Mount: Riding Horse
Turan Cavalry Gold 30, Res 30, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 20, MS, WS, FR +10, DV 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance,
Composite Bow, Mount: War Horse
Savaran Cataphract Gold 55, Res 29, Rec 18
HP 13, Prot 16, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, MS, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad
Sword, Composite Bow, Mount: Nisean War Horse
Savaran Guard Gold 60, Res 33, Rec 27
HP 15, Prot 20, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 8, MS, WS, FR +15, DV 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad
Sword, Composite Bow, Mount: Nisean War Horse
Turan Elephant Rider Gold 105, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 12, MS, WS, FR +10, DV 50, Wpn: Small Hammer, Mount:
War Elephant, Coriders: 2 * Elephant Spearmen
Iceclad Zhayedan Gold 19, Res 40, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Wpn: Ice Lance
Zhayedan Gold 125, Res 30, Rec 27 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 20, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 15, MM 10, MS, WS, Sacr, FR +15, DV 50, Rider 1, Wpn: Lance,
Broad Sword, Mount: Turan Gryphon
Ragha, mount stats
Riding Horse
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 7, Str 13, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 23, MM 20, Wpn: Hoof
Nisean War Horse
HP 26, Prot 17, MR 7, Mor 13, Str 17, Att 13, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 28, MM 18, FR +5, Wpn: Hoof
War Elephant
HP 64, Prot 18, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 16, MM 18, Trample, Wpn: Tusk
Turan Gryphon
HP 44, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 13, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 11, MM 16, MS, WS, Fly, Sacr, Smart 100, Wpn: Bite, Talons
Turan Gryphon
HP 47, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 17, Att 13, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 11, MM 16, MS, WS, Fly, Sacr, Smart 100, Wpn: Bite, Talons
392
[[page 393]]
Caelum, Return of the Raptors
Caelum is a magocracy of winged humanoids who inhabit the highest mountain peaks. In ancient times, there were three
Caelian clans led by semi-divine beings known as Yazatas. Centuries ago the Harab Seraphs of the Raptor clan were
accused of polluting the purifying flames and tainting the sacred task of the Seraphines. They were condemned by the High
Seraphs of the Airya clan and civil war broke out. The Raptors were banished and scattered across the world. But now a new God is rising
and the scattered tribes have gathered. The Raptors have returned to Caelum and overthrown the magocracy. Harab Seraphs, the
mage-priests of this new and dark faith, have replaced the High Seraphs and black-winged Raptors have become the ruling elite. Now the
Raptors have cast their eyes upon other nations. The Harab Seraphs are skilled in Air, Death and Earth magic. A few of the Airya Seraphs
remain, but the ice crafters have been replaced by iron crafters, Raptorian mage-smiths who forge weapons of iron and steel. The secrets
of the magical ice of former times are all but forgotten. Caelians are thin and light. The Raptorians are slightly stronger and are martially
superior to the other clans. They are not as resistant to the elements as the other Caelians. Airya Clan Caelians are resistant to cold, but
few of them remain. Spire Horn Caelians are less resistant to cold but have partial resistance to lightning. They are skilled archers and
prefer hit-and-run tactics, even though they do have some heavy troops, such as huge Mammoths.
Race: Flying, cold resistant, prefers Cold scale +1
Military: Flying units, skilled archers, mammoths
Magic: Air, Death, Earth, some Water and Fire
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Caelum, recruitable commanders
Airya Scout Gold 35, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Stealth 55, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Blade
Raven Lord Gold 70, Res 25, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, Stealth 40, Ambidex 2, Ldr 50, Wpn: Short
Sword
Storm General Gold 95, Res 36, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 22, Fly, SR +10, CR +10, Ice Armor 2, Storm Immunity,
Ldr 100, Wpn: Ice Blade
Iron Crafter Gold 65, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Forge Bonus 1, Resource Bonus 10, Ldr 10, MagLdr
10, Mag: E1, Wpn: Hammer
Caretaker Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: E1D1H1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Harab Seraph Gold 175, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20, Mag: A1D1?1, Wpn:
Short Sword
Caelian Seraph Gold 175, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: A2W1, Wpn: Ice
Knife
Harab Elder Gold 430, Res 3, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 12, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, Sacr, Ldr 50, UndLdr 150, MagLdr 40, Mag:
A2E1D2H2?1, Wpn: Short Sword
393
[[page 394]]
Caelum, recruitable units
Spire Horn Militia Gold 8, Res 5, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 20, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Wpn: Ice Spear
Raptorian Militia Gold 8, Res 4, Rec 5
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 20, Fly, Wpn: Spear
Airya Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Lance
Airya Infantry Gold 10, Res 16, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice Blade
Raptorian Warrior Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, Wpn: Light Lance
Raptorian Warrior Gold 10, Res 24, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, Wpn: Light Lance
Raptorian Warrior Gold 10, Res 26, Rec 9
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, Wpn: Broad Sword
Spire Horn Archer Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 9, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Ice Knife,
Composite Bow
Spire Horn Warrior Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +5, Storm Immunity, Wpn: Ice
Lance
Iron Crow Gold 14, Res 26, Rec 18
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 20, Fly, Wpn: Broad Sword
Storm Guard Gold 15, Res 31, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 22, Fly, SR +10, CR +10, Ice Armor 2, Storm
Immunity, Wpn: Ice Lance
Iceclad Gold 15, Res 40, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 6, MM 20, Fly, CR +15, Ice Armor 2, Wpn: Ice Lance
Raven Guard Gold 16, Res 23, Rec 23
HP 12, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 20, Fly, Stealth 40, Ambidex 1, Wpn: Short Sword,
Dagger
Mammoth Rider Gold 120, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 22, Fly, SR +5, CR +20, Storm Immunity, Wpn:
Small Hammer, Mount: Mammoth, Coriders: 2 * Mammoth Archers
Iron Hail Archer Gold 16, Res 9, Rec 16 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, Reinvig 2, Wpn: Dagger, Composite Bow
Earthbound Gold 23, Res 38, Rec 27 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 20, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 10, CS 5, MM 10, Sacr, Reinvig 3, Wpn: Short Sword, Crossbow
Caelum, mount stats
Mammoth
HP 64, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, CR +15, Wpn: Tusk
394
[[page 395]]
Gath, Last of the Giants
Gath is a dry land that has only recently recovered from the devastation caused by its earlier inhabitants. For ages the land
has been dominated by giants, but under constant pressure from human immigrants and the Abysian Tide of Fire, the
original inhabitants of the land were forced to retreat and watch as city after city was destroyed. Now there is but one city
left: Gath, the City of Giants. The Gittite descendants of the Anakites of Ashdod still dominate the surrounding land and have subjugated
several human tribes. While the human tribes comprise much of the population of the kingdom, the Gittites are the undisputed rulers of
the land. By keeping iron-working from the human population and through a strictly centralized cult focused around bloody sacrifices at
the Great Temple, the Gittites have kept control of the land. The Gittites are small compared to the ancient Rephaim, but still large by
human standards.
Race: Gittite giants and humans. Prefers Heat scale +1.
Military: Gittite infantry, several human tribes with different skills.
Magic: Fire, Earth, Astral, Blood, Nature, Death.
Priests: Medium with powerful priest at capital, sacred Gibborite giants, can perform blood sacrifices.
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts, temples cost 1200
Gath, recruitable commanders
Iassacharite Scout Gold 35, Res 6, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, WS, Stealth 55, Wpn: Bronze
Dagger, Short Bow
Iassacharite Sage Gold 60, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 11, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, WS, Sacr, Mundane Researcher, Wpn: Bronze
Dagger
Benjaminite Commander Gold 55, Res 11, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Ambidex 2, Pillage +5, Ldr 50, Wpn:
Bronze Sword, Bronze Sword, Sling
Gittite Commander Gold 115, Res 25, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 12, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, FR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad
Sword, Javelin
Levite Priest Gold 65, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, WS, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Dagger
Iassacharite Sibyl Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, WS, Fortune Teller 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1N1,
Wpn: Fist
Abba Gold 245, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Stealth 50, Healing 1, FR +5, Heretic
1, MagLdr 30, Mag: N2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Kohen Gold 180, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Sacr, FR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 20, Mag: B1H2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Yeddeoni Gold 180, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 23, Prot 3, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, WS, FR +5, Ldr 20, UndLdr 50, MagLdr
20, Mag: E1D1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Seren Gold 280, Res 79, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 42, Prot 18, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 21, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 16, WS, Sacr, FR +5, Ldr 150, Wpn:
Anakite Sword
Kohen Gadol Gold 540, Res 33, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 55, Prot 9, MR 18, Mor 16, Str 20, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, WS, Sacr, FR +5, Ldr 100, UndLdr 20,
MagLdr 40, Mag: B2H3?2, Wpn: Censer
395
[[page 396]]
Gath, recruitable units
Naphtali Spearman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, WS, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Reubenite Archer Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Wpn: Bronze Dagger, Short Bow
Benjaminite Slinger Gold 11, Res 11, Rec 12
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, WS, Ambidex 2, Pillage +2, Wpn: Bronze
Sword, Bronze Sword, Sling
Gadite Swordsman Gold 12, Res 28, Rec 14
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 12, WS, FR +5, Wpn: Bronze Sword, Javelin
Zebulunite Soldier Gold 13, Res 15, Rec 16
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Asherite Soldier Gold 15, Res 27, Rec 21
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Broad Sword
Zebulunite Horn Blower Gold 20, Res 16, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 12, WS, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Gittite Soldier Gold 25, Res 22, Rec 15
HP 24, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 14, WS, FR +5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Levite Zealot Gold 15, Res 17, Rec 14
HP 11, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, WS, Sacr, Patrol 2, Wpn: Bronze Sword
Gibbor Gold 70, Res 43, Rec 23 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 38, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 19, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, WS, Sacr, FR +5, Wpn: Anakite Sword
396
[[page 397]]
Patala, Reign of the Nagas
In the dense forests of the Bandar realm, apes of uncanny brightness have emerged. Under the influence of semi-divine
beings, the apes evolved intelligence and culture. When the former rulers of Bandar Log returned to their Celestial
Realms, the apes were left without leadership and innovation in the nation ground to a halt. A warlike hierarchical society
was formed with the large Bandar apes at the top. Later, Nagas arrived from the Nether Realm of Patala, from where all rivers spring. The
Nagas are divine beings of the Underworld and its rivers, and the Nagas are now to the apes what the Yakshas were in ages past. With
mesmerizing stares and dancing serpentine bodies, they entranced the Bandar Log and claimed their empire as their own. Patala is a
divided society. Small Markatas are at the bottom of the society. Vanara apes of human size are the most common. Large Bandar apes rule
most of the society and form the military. Above all are the sacred Nagas and their kings.
Race: Nagas and apes, prefers Heat scale +2
Military: A multitude of missile weapons, light and medium infantry, sacred naga warriors
Magic: Water, Earth, Nature, Astral and Glamour
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Patala, recruitable commanders
Markata Scout Gold 25, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 60, Wpn: Dagger, Sticks and Stones
Vanara Captain Gold 50, Res 17, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Ldr 75, Wpn: Falchion
Atavi Chieftain Gold 60, Res 8, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 12, Prot 4, MR 8, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, Wpn: Falchion, Sticks
and Stones
Bandar Commander Gold 105, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 23, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Brahmin Gold 60, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Mace
Yogi Gold 80, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: S1, Wpn: Fist
Guru Gold 225, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 2, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: S2N1, Wpn: Fist
Nagaraja Gold 245, Res 31, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 25, Prot 16, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 8, SS, Sacr, Magic, Amph, Water Magic +1, PR
+10, SpSi, Ldr 100, MagLdr 50, Mag: W1E1G1H2, Wpn: Hypnotize, Falchion, Venomous Bite, Poison Spit
Nagini Gold 310, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 5, MR 17, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Magic, Amph, Water Magic +1, PR
+10, SpSi, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60, Mag: W1E1G1H1?1, Wpn: Hypnotize, Fist, Venomous Bite, Poison Spit
Nagarishi Gold 485, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 22, Prot 5, MR 18, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 10, SS, Sacr, Magic, Amph, Water Magic +1, PR
+10, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 120, Mag: W2E2S1N1G1H1?1, Wpn: Hypnotize, Kryss, Venomous Bite, Poison Spit
Naga Chief Gold 80, Res 7, Rec 1 (can be recruited in all caves)
HP 18, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Magic, Amph, PR +10, SpSi, Ldr 50,
MagLdr 10, Wpn: Hypnotize, Falchion, Venomous Fangs, Poison Spit
397
[[page 398]]
Patala, recruitable units
Markata Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Club, Sticks and Stones
Markata Archer Gold 5, Res 2, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 5, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 7, Str 5, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Fist, Short Bow
Atavi Archer Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Atavi Infantry Gold 7, Res 3, Rec 3 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and
Stones
Vanara Archer Gold 8, Res 14, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Vanara Chakram Thrower Gold 8, Res 15, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Chakram
Vanara Infantry Gold 8, Res 14, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace
Vanara Swordsman Gold 11, Res 17, Rec 12
HP 11, Prot 14, MR 8, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Falchion
Light Bandar Archer Gold 16, Res 6, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Mace, Long Bow
Bandar Archer Gold 16, Res 21, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Mace, Long Bow
Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 18, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Iron Cudgel
Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 18, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 15, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 10, FS, Wpn: Mace
Light Bandar Warrior Gold 16, Res 11, Rec 8
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 8, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Sticks and Stones
Elephant Rider Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 3
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 8, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Small Hammer, Mount: War
Elephant, Coriders: 2 * Elephant Archers
Naga Gold 20, Res 2, Rec 17 (can be recruited in the capital and all caves)
HP 16, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Magic, Amph, PR +10, SpSi,
Wpn: Hypnotize, Bronze Spear, Venomous Fangs, Poison Spit
Naga Warrior Gold 27, Res 31, Rec 22 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 19, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 8, SS, Sacr, Magic, Amph, PR +10, SpSi,
Wpn: Hypnotize, Falchion, Venomous Fangs, Poison Spit
Patala, mount stats
War Elephant
HP 64, Prot 11, MR 6, Mor 9, Str 20, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 18, MM 22, Trample, Wpn: Tusk
398
[[page 399]]
T'ien Ch'i, Barbarian Kings
The Celestial Empire is crumbling. Constant invasions from the barbaric khans have all but destroyed the Imperial
Bureaucracy. The Imperial family has been replaced by Barbarian Kings. The Imperial Guard is no more and the cavalry of
old has been replaced by skilled barbarian horsemen. Ancestral worship is popular once more and priest-mages of
barbarian heritage who lead the Ancestor Cult are replacing the priests of the Bureaucracy. With the displacement of the eunuchs from
power, conscription has fallen out of use.
Race: Humans
Military: Cavalry, heavy infantry, archers.
Magic: Water, Earth, Death, Nature, Air, Astral and some Glamour, Summon Celestial Beings
Priests: Weak
Buildings: Standard Forts
T'ien Ch'i, recruitable commanders
Mounted Scout Gold 35, Res 9, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Stealth 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance,
Composite Bow, Mount: Steppe Horse
General Gold 110, Res 27, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 22, MM 16, Rider 2, Ldr 100, Wpn: Lance, Falchion,
Composite Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Khan Gold 190, Res 27, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Pillage +5, Rider 4, Ldr 150, Wpn: Lance,
Falchion, Composite Bow, Mount: Cataphracted Steppe Horse
Ceremonial Master Gold 65, Res 3, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Yak Tail Fly Whisk
Master of the Way Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, NNEat, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: W1H1?1, Wpn:
Dagger
Ancestor Smith Gold 310, Res 16, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 15, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 8, MM 6, Sacr, Forge Bonus 1, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr
40, Mag: E2D1H1?1, Wpn: Ancestor Sword
Spirit Master Gold 310, Res 11, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 10, Sacr, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag:
D1N2H1?1, Wpn: Spirit Club
Ancestor Guide Gold 310, Res 11, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 15, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 9, MM 8, Sacr, SpSi, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag:
A1D2H1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Celestial Master Gold 310, Res 5, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 14, Sacr, NNEat, Ldr 10, MagLdr 60, Mag:
A1W2S1H1?1, Wpn: Yak Tail Fly Whisk
T'ien Ch'i, recruitable units
Footman Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Pike
Footman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Glaive
Footman Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Archer Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Short Sword, Composite Bow
Heavy Footman Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Glaive
399
[[page 400]]
Heavy Footman Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 7, MM 10, Wpn: Spear
Medium Footman Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Wpn: Glaive
Medium Footman Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Barbarian Horseman Gold 25, Res 12, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Pillage +2, Rider 2, Wpn: Light
Lance, Composite Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Barbarian Heavy Horseman Gold 25, Res 27, Rec 9 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Pillage +2, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance,
Falchion, Composite Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Ancestor Vessel Gold 50, Res 32, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 17, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, SpSi, Pillage +2, Rider 3, Wpn:
Lance, Falchion, Howling Bow, Mount: Cataphracted Steppe Horse
T'ien Ch'i, mount stats
Cataphracted Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
Armored Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 25, MM 26, Wpn: Hoof
Armored Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 24, Wpn: Hoof
Cataphracted Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 6, Mor 12, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 22, Sacr, Wpn: Hoof
Steppe Horse
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 7, Str 13, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 26, Wpn: Hoof
400
[[page 401]]
Jomon, Human Daimyos
The rice fields of Jomon were the first to be attacked by the Bakemono onslaught. After years of slavery and
mistreatment, the human inhabitants rebelled as the Bakemono had once rebelled against their Oni masters. One by one
the Bakemono tribes were replaced by human Daimyos and their sworn warriors. A strict, feudal warrior society replaced
the disorganized rule of the Bakemono Kings. Even war has become ritualized and peasants are left largely in peace. With the coming of
the new God, the Daimyos have joined forces and look for other realms to conquer.
Race: Humans
Military: Light infantry, samurai archers, samurai infantry, samurai cavalry, ninja assassins
Magic: Weak. Astral, Earth, Nature, Fire, Air, Water. Many national summons
Priests: Average
Buildings: Primitive Forts
Jomon, recruitable commanders
Ninja Gold 80, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 10, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Stealth 70, DV 50, Assassin, Patience
+2, Scale Walls, Wpn: Ninjato, Shuriken
Gokenin Gold 55, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, Ldr 75, Wpn: Katana
Mounted Gokenin Gold 75, Res 28, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Ldr 75, Wpn: Light Lance, Katana,
Mount: War Horse
Hatamoto Gold 115, Res 28, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 1, Ldr 100, Wpn: Light Lance,
Katana, Mount: War Horse
Daimyo Gold 170, Res 26, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 1, Ldr 150, Wpn: Katana,
Mount: War Horse
Kannushi Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 7, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H2, Wpn: Dagger
Monk of the Fivefold Path Gold 95, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1?1, Wpn: Fist
Shugenja Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, MS, NNEat, Ldr 20, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Onmyo-ji Gold 200, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 7, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 16, MS, SpSi, Fortune Teller 10, Retinue 1 , Ldr
20, MagLdr 60, Mag: S2?2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Master Shugenja Gold 230, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all highlands and mountains)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 8, Str 8, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, MS, NNEat, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
E1N1?2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Crab General Gold 70, Res 32, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 25, Prot 23, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 10, Amph, DV 100, Void Sanity 10, Ldr 50,
Wpn: Metal Glaive, Pincer
Ryujin Gold 400, Res 6, Rec 4 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 23, Prot 12, MR 18, Mor 15, Str 14, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 12, MM 34, Fly, Sacr, Magic, Amph, FR +5, SR +5,
PR +15, SpSi, Ldr 30, MagLdr 60, Mag: W2?2, Wpn: Venomous Fangs, Claw, Tail Sweep, Drake Gas
401
[[page 402]]
Jomon, recruitable units
Ashigaru Gold 8, Res 11, Rec 5
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, Wpn: Yari
Samurai Gold 10, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Naginata
Samurai Gold 10, Res 22, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Katana
Samurai Archer Gold 11, Res 25, Rec 12
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Katana, Long Bow
O-ban Gold 12, Res 26, Rec 14
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: Katana
Go-Hatamoto Gold 14, Res 25, Rec 18
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: No-Dachi
Aka-Oni Samurai Gold 15, Res 22, Rec 21
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Wpn: Katana
Samurai Cavalry Gold 35, Res 28, Rec 21
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, Wpn: Light Lance, Katana, Mount: War Horse
Sohei Gold 19, Res 19, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Sacr, Wpn: Naginata
Yamabushi Gold 19, Res 22, Rec 10 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 14, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, MS, Sacr, Wpn: Katana
Shrimp Soldier Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 14, Prot 17, MR 8, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 7, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 10, Aqua, DV 100, Void Sanity 10, Wpn: Metal Glaive
Shark Warrior Gold 45, Res 33, Rec 31 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 28, Prot 19, MR 9, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 12, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Metal Yari, Bite
Jomon, mount stats
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 23, MM 20, Wpn: Hoof
402
[[page 403]]
Mictlan, Blood and Rain
When Atlantis was destroyed by R'lyeh and the Atlantians scattered, some fled into the deep swamps and jungles of
Mictlan. Here they found a people who worshiped the Rain as one aspect of their God. The Atlantian Kings became Kings
of Rain and reshaped the faith to their needs. They found the secrets of the long abandoned Blood Cult and reinstated the
foul practices of ancient times. Then the New God rose, hungry for blood. Now Mictlan is once again expanding its territories to feed the
hunger of its Lord. Isolation has made Mictlan a backward nation and its warriors use archaic weaponry and armor. The armies are mainly
composed of slaves from newly conquered lands. The mage-priests of Mictlan celebrate the two Faces and the two Dominions of the
Hungry God, namely the Sun and the Moon, the Rain and the Forest.
Race: Humans and Atlantians, prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Light infantry with slings and javelins, tribal kings can levy slaves, sacred Jaguar and Eagle Warriors. Sacred Atlantians that can enter the sea.
Magic: Water, Blood, Fire, Astral, Nature
Priests: Powerful, can perform blood sacrifices, Dominion does not spread unless blood is sacrificed
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1, Sloth limit +1, Heat limit +1, Bless points +3
Buildings: Primitive Fortified Cities
Mictlan, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Stone Spear, Sling
Tribal King Gold 125, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 100, Wpn: Obsidian
Club Sword, Javelin
Mictlan Priest Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 10,
Mag: B1H1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Nahualli Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, SpSi, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: S1N2, Wpn:
Stone Dagger
Rain Priest Gold 190, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 50, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 30, Mag: W2B1H2, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Moon Priest Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr
60, Mag: S2B2H2, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Sun Priest Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Ldr 30, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 40, Mag:
F2B2H2, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Priest King Gold 325, Res 5, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 3, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Sacr, TM +1, Ldr 150, UndLdr 20, MagLdr
40, Mag: N2B2H2, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
King of Rain Gold 650, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 27, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Gift of Water
Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 150, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 70, Mag: W3B2H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Lord of the Deep Gold 200, Res 7, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 25, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Stone Spear
Priest of All Waters Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 50, MagLdr 20,
Mag: W2H2, Wpn: Coral Knife
Mother of All Waters Gold 415, Res 5, Rec 4 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 22, Prot 9, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag:
W3H2, Wpn: Mace
403
[[page 404]]
Mictlan, recruitable units
Warrior Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Wpn: Stone Spear, Sling
Warrior Gold 9, Res 8, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Sling
Warrior Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Warrior Gold 9, Res 13, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Javelin
Feathered Warrior Gold 18, Res 13, Rec 21
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 12, FS, Wpn: Mace, Javelin
Eagle Warrior Gold 15, Res 3, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Ambidex 3, Wpn: Bronze Lance,
Stone Dagger
Rain Warrior Gold 23, Res 20, Rec 27 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 12, MR 11, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 7, MM 12, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Bronze Glaive
Jaguar Warrior Gold 26, Res 4, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, FS, Sacr, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Warrior of the Deep Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
Returned Gold 25, Res 5, Rec 34 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 24, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
404
[[page 405]]
Xibalba, Return of the Zotz
Xibalba is a vast realm of dark caverns beneath the forests of Mictlan. Living in the caverns were the bat people, Zotz, but
that changed when the cavernous realm was struck by a great disaster. A star fell into the ocean and a great deluge
flooded the caves of Xibalba. The Zotz were almost wiped out and their realm was conquered by atlantian refugees. For a
long time the toad people ruled Xibalba and became powerful. Eventually the Bacabob left the caverns to conquer the sun-lit world. There
they met Mictlan and the Lawgiver. The humans were more numerous and while the Xibalban Bacabob were mighty, they could not
prevent the death of their kin. Slowly the Xibalbans were decimated and the Bacabob withdrew into the flooded city and fell into a
centennial torpor. When the caves began to dry up the Zotz started to return in numbers. In the still waterfilled depths of Xibalba the Zotz
priests found and unwittingly awoke the Bacabob. Now the Zotz once more inhabit their ancestral home, but serve the divinities of
subterranean waters and the Awakening God.
Race: Swarms of cheap, flying, stealthy cave dwellers, a few Muuch toad men remain. Prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Flying, stealthy light infantry, amphibious infantry
Magic: Water, Death, Earth, Blood, Nature and some Air
Priests: Powerful, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Sloth limit +1, Heat limit +1
Buildings: Very Primitive Forts
Xibalba, recruitable commanders
Batab Gold 60, Res 5, Rec 1 (can be recruited in forts as well as all forests and caves)
HP 7, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 18, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Ldr 75,
MagLdr 10, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Ajaw Gold 145, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Ldr 100, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Ajaw Kan Ek' Gold 240, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 7, Prot 1, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Ldr 150, MagLdr 10, Mag: H2, Wpn: Bronze Hatchet
Ah Ha' Gold 140, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in both land and underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 100, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag:
W1E1H1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Ah Itz Gold 165, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 110, MagLdr 20, Mag: D1B1?1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Way Gold 200, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Research -4, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol
-1, Ldr 20, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: N2B1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Chilan Gold 250, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in forts and all caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Sacr, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag: E1D1H2?1, Wpn: Stone Dagger
Camazotz Gold 280, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 160, MagLdr 30, Mag: E1D2B1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Bacab Gold 685, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 27, Prot 10, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 100, Resource Bonus 5, Gift
of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 150, UndLdr 110, MagLdr 50, Mag: W3E2D1H3?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Lakam Ha' Batab Gold 55, Res 5, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 16, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
405
[[page 406]]
Xibalba, recruitable units
Zotz Warrior Gold 8, Res 1, Rec 6 (can be recruited in forts as well as all forests and caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Wpn: Stone Lance
Zotz Warrior Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 6 (can be recruited in forts as well as all forests and caves)
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol
-1, Wpn: Obsidian Club Sword
Zotz Dart Thrower Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 7, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Fly, Stealth 40, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1,
Wpn: Mace, Obsidian Dart
Zotz Guard Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 12
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 18, FS, Fly, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Wpn:
Stone Lance
Zotz Guard Gold 10, Res 6, Rec 12
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 18, FS, Fly, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol -1, Wpn:
Obsidian Club Sword
Sak Muuch Dart Thrower Gold 10, Res 4, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, SS, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Stone Dagger,
Obsidian Dart
Sak Muuch Warrior Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, SS, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bronze Spear
Sak Muuch Warrior Gold 10, Res 11, Rec 9
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 10, SS, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Obsidian Club
Sword
Obsidian Warrior Gold 18, Res 19, Rec 24 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 18, FS, Fly, Sacr, FR +5, Blood Searcher 1, Patrol
-1, Wpn: Obsidian Shard Blade
Wo' Muuch Gold 35, Res 34, Rec 39 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 26, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 16, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Obsidian
Blade
Lakam Ha' Warrior Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Net, Stone Spear
Lakam Ha' Warrior Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 14, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear
406
[[page 407]]
C'tis, Desert Tombs
C'tis is a river valley surrounded by sandy deserts. Once the valley was fertile and great swamps surrounded the great
river. Now the deserts spread and the swamps grow fewer and smaller each passing year. The valley is the home of an
ancient sacral kingdom of lizard-like humanoids. In ancient times, the High Priests of C'tis mastered the craft of embalming
to preserve the remains of their kings. Since the dawn of the kingdom, tombs have been constructed in the desert to contain the
mummified kings and priests. With the Awakening of the God, the Sauromancers, great mages of death and rebirth, have re-emerged and
taken the place of the Marshmasters. Through studies of ancient lore they have perfected dark rituals that awaken the kings of old to lead
the stirring dead as the Lizard Kings lead the kingdom of the living. At the top of the C'tissian society is the Lizard King. The King is the
highest priest of C'tis. Under the King are the High Priests and the enigmatic Sauromancers. After a great rebellion most of the
carnivorous lizardmen were slain or fled to distant lands. There is a widespread fear that the predators and their Sobek masters will return
as foreseen in their Seventh Book. The C'tissians are somewhat slow in movement, but have thick hides that protect them from cuts and
bruises. The lizardmen are cold-blooded and become exhausted very quickly when fighting in cold provinces. They have partial resistance
to poison. The inhabitants of C'tis prefer to live in warm provinces. The Tomb Kings and Tomb Priests are able to reanimate the dead.
Race: Thick hides, cold-blooded, poison resistance, prefers Heat scale +2. Reanimated dead
Military: Infantry, undead
Magic: Death, Fire, some Nature, Astral and Earth
Priests: Powerful, undead priests can reanimate the dead
Dominion: Temples inside dominion spawn longdead (more in strong dominion)
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1, Death limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
C'tis, recruitable commanders
Commander of C'tis Gold 55, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Spear
Lizard Lord Gold 95, Res 21, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 6, MM 8, SS, PR +5, Ldr 100, Wpn: Falchion
Hierodule Gold 40, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Mag: H1, Wpn: Claw
High Priest of C'tis Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 50, UndLdr 10, Mag: H2,
Wpn: Claw
Lizard King Gold 340, Res 5, Rec 4
HP 17, Prot 6, MR 18, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 150, Mag: H3, Wpn:
Falchion
Reborn Gold 175, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 16, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 20,
Mag: D1?1, Wpn: Claw
Sauromancer Gold 400, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, SS, WS, Sacr, PR +10, Ldr 20, UndLdr 150,
MagLdr 30, Mag: F1D3H1?1, Wpn: Claw
Empoisoner Gold 125, Res 6, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 17, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, Stealth 55, PR +15, Assassin, Patience +2,
Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: D1N1, Wpn: Poison Dagger, Poison Sling
Keeper of the Tombs Gold 155, Res 1, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 6, MR 15, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, SS, WS, Sacr, PR +5, Ldr 20, UndLdr 90, MagLdr
10, Mag: F1D1H2, Wpn: Claw
407
[[page 408]]
C'tis, recruitable units
Militia Gold 7, Res 2, Rec 5
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
C'tissian Heavy Infantry Gold 10, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
City Guard Gold 10, Res 10, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear
C'tissian Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
C'tissian Heavy Infantry Gold 10, Res 18, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Falchion
Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 11
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Claw, Crossbow
Falchioneer Gold 13, Res 26, Rec 18
HP 11, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, SS, Ambidex 2, PR +5, Wpn: Falchion,
Falchion
Halberdier Gold 14, Res 22, Rec 20
HP 12, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, SS, PR +5, Wpn: Halberd
Poison Slinger Gold 24, Res 6, Rec 32 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 5, MR 12, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, SS, PR +10, Wpn: Dagger, Poison Sling
Tomb Guard Gold 23, Res 29, Rec 28 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 21, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 6, MM 10, SS, WS, Sacr, PR +5, Wpn: Falchion
Tomb Flame Wielder Gold 24, Res 17, Rec 36 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 10, SS, Sacr, PR +5, Wpn: Claw, Banefire
Crossbow
Desert Ranger Gold 13, Res 16, Rec 18 (can be recruited in all non-fort wastes)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, SS, WS, PR +5, Patrol 2, Wpn: Falchion,
Javelin
408
[[page 409]]
Midgård, Age of Men
Once Midgård was called Vanheim, home of the Vanir. But since the coming of man, the Vanir have dwindled in number. At first, the
Vanir were the undisputed rulers of the land, but the growing human population has taken over the land and renamed it Midgård.
Only a few Vanir survive, but their magic has not yet departed the land. The Vanir are sacred to the human population and the few
surviving Vanjarls carry great influence. The humans of Midgård themselves have become altered by the ancient magic of the Vanir and skinshifters
are more common than they once were.
Race: Ocean sailing, trace income across oceans, illusions, prefers Cold scale +1
Military: Heavy infantry, skinshifters, berserkers, Vanir
Magic: Air, Astral, Blood, Earth, Death and some Glamour
Priests: Average, can perform blood sacrifices
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Midgård, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Herse Gold 75, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Army Sail, Ship Size 4, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin
Jarl Gold 180, Res 13, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, Army Sail, Ship Size 4, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword
Gode Gold 65, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 6, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Axe
Völva Gold 145, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 14, SpSi, Fortune Teller 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: S2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Galderman Gold 265, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, FS, Regen 10%, Ldr 10, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 20, Mag: A2?2, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Vanherse Gold 235, Res 16, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 14, Prot 13, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 14, Def 19, Prec 13, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 4, Ldr 75,
MagLdr 20, Mag: A1G1H1, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Vanjarl Gold 440, Res 18, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 15, Prot 13, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 22, Prec 14, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Army Sail, Ship Size 5, Rider 5, Ldr 100,
UndLdr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag: A2G1B1H2, Wpn: Broad Sword, Javelin, Mount: Fay Horse
Midgård, recruitable units
Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Archer Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 14, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Hirdman Gold 12, Res 20, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Spear
Hirdman Gold 12, Res 22, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword
Einhere Gold 25, Res 21, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 12, Ambidex 1, Berserker +5, Wpn: Broad Sword, Axe
Skinshifter Gold 25, Res 7, Rec 36
HP 13, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, Regen 10%, Wpn: Great Sword
Van Gold 60, Res 16, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 12, Def 19, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, Rider 3, Wpn: Light Lance, Javelin, Mount:
Fay Horse
Midgård, mount stats
Fay Horse
HP 22, Prot 4, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 5, Enc 1, CS 30, MM 28, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 65, PR +10, TrSi, Smart 100, Wpn: Hoof
409
[[page 410]]
Bogarus, Age of Heroes
Bogarus is a land of harsh winters and short summers. When the Vanir claimed this cold and bitter land of the north, they
named it Vanarus and carved a kingdom out of the frozen land. Now humans have replaced the last of the Vanjarls and the
kingdom is guided by Eparchs and Exarchs of the religious order. Mighty cities under the rule of warring princes have
united under a few Grand Princes and a reformed faith. Bogatyrs of heroic stature and prowess, defenders and champions of the faith,
occasionally emerge to lead and protect the people from the wicked. The Grand Princes use infantry as well as elite cavalry forces. Mages
of various traditions ply their trade in the palaces of the Grand Princes. The people of Bogarus prefer a cold climate.
Race: Humans with partial cold resistance, prefers Cold scale +2
Military: Heavy cavalry, mounted archers, infantry
Magic: Fire, Astral, Blood, some Air, Earth and Death, Summonable beings of earlier eras
Priests: Powerful
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1, Misfortune limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Bogarus, recruitable commanders
Bogarusian Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short
Bow
Voivode Gold 40, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, CR +5, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Knyaz Gold 135, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, CR +5, Inspirational +1, Rider 2, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Broad Sword, Mount: Cataphracted War Horse
Veliki Knyaz Gold 190, Res 26, Rec 2
HP 16, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 13, Att 13, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 12, CR +5, Inspirational +1, Rider 3, Ldr 150, Wpn:
Broad Sword, Mount: Cataphracted War Horse
Skopets Gold 95, Res 2, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 16, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Stealth 40, CR +5, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Whip
Exarch Gold 100, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, CR +5, Ldr 10, Mag: H2, Wpn: Dagger
Occultist Gold 140, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, CR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1D1B1,
Wpn: Dagger
Kalendologist Gold 145, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, CR +5, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
S2, Wpn: Dagger
Alchemist Gold 155, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, CR +5, Alchemy Bonus 50, Ldr 20, MagLdr 40, Mag:
F1E1S1, Wpn: Dagger
Astrapelagist Gold 175, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, CR +5, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 10, MagLdr 40, Mag:
A2S1, Wpn: Dagger
Master of Names Gold 215, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 11, MM 12, Research +6, CR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 50,
Mag: S2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Fivefold Angel Gold 315, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 18, Str 9, Att 7, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, Sacr, Stealth 50, Temp Blood Slaves 1, CR +5, Spy,
Damage Reversal 1 v MR, Ldr 100, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 20, Mag: B2H2, Wpn: Stump
Eparch Gold 245, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 2, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 9, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, CR +5, Mag: H3, Wpn: Dagger
410
[[page 411]]
Starets Gold 360, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 2, MR 16, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 4, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 10, MM 10, Research +6, CR +5, Ldr 30, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 80,
Mag: F2A1S2B1?1, Wpn: Dagger
Bogarus, recruitable units
Voi Spearman Gold 8, Res 8, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Voi Axeman Gold 8, Res 7, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Axe
Voi Archer Gold 8, Res 5, Rec 5
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 8, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 14, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Peshtsi Axeman Gold 10, Res 18, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, CR +5, Wpn: Axe
Peshtsi Spearman Gold 10, Res 15, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 10, MM 16, CR +5, Wpn: Spear
Peshtsi City Guard Gold 11, Res 20, Rec 12
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 12, CR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword
Grid Druzhina Gold 27, Res 19, Rec 14
HP 11, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 14, CR +5, Rider 1, Wpn: Broad Sword,
Composite Bow, Mount: War Horse
Malaia Druzhina Gold 40, Res 28, Rec 31
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 10, CR +5, Rider 1, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword,
Mount: Cataphracted War Horse
Khlyst Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 5
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 11, Mor 15, Str 9, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Morningstar
Black Hood Gold 18, Res 12, Rec 5 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, CR +5, Rider 2, Wpn: Mace, Composite Bow,
Mount: Steppe Horse
Styag Gold 35, Res 19, Rec 21 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 23, MM 18, CR +5, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance, Composite
Bow, Mount: Armored Steppe Horse
Bogarus, mount stats
Cataphracted War Horse
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 5, Mor 10, Str 14, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 4, CS 23, MM 18, Wpn: Hoof
War Horse
HP 20, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 24, MM 22, Wpn: Hoof
Armored Steppe Horse
HP 20, Prot 10, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 24, Wpn: Hoof
Steppe Horse
HP 18, Prot 3, MR 5, Mor 7, Str 13, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 26, Wpn: Hoof
411
[[page 412]]
Utgård, Well of Urd
Utgård is a land of bitter winters and cool summers. It was once Jotunheim, the home of giants. But with the coming of
man, the giant population has dwindled. After man ventured to the icy lands of Jotunheim, the giants of Jotun discovered
the humans to be resourceful allies. With the Awakening God, all grudges have been cast aside and men and giants fight
side by side. The alliance with the humans has estranged the Gygjas and their Vaetti servants, who no longer aid the giants. Instead, human
seeresses have become influential. In the heart of Utgård lies the magical Well of Urd where the Norns gather and divine the future of the
world. The giants of Utgård are immensely strong and resilient. They are born in the cold and do not suffer from cold climates. The people
of Utgård prefer to live in cool provinces.
Race: Cold resistant, prefers Cold scale +1
Military: Giant infantry, human infantry
Magic: Water, Astral, Death, Glamour, Blood and some Nature
Priests: Average
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1, Luck limit +1
Buildings: Giant Forts
Utgård, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Jotun Scout Gold 60, Res 7, Rec 1
HP 36, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, MS, Stealth 40, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear,
Javelin
Herse Gold 55, Res 22, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 16, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Jotun Herse Gold 105, Res 41, Rec 1
HP 36, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Gode Gold 65, Res 11, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 11, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Axe
Jotun Gode Gold 150, Res 19, Rec 2
HP 36, Prot 13, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 14, MM 16, FS, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Jotun Jarl Gold 180, Res 41, Rec 1
HP 40, Prot 18, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 23, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 13, MM 14, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Seithkona Gold 120, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Fortune Teller 5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, MagLdr 30, Mag:
S1D1G1, Wpn: Dagger
Jotun Skratti Gold 310, Res 3, Rec 4
HP 37, Prot 10, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 22, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 15, MM 18, FS, SR -5, CR +15, Ldr 10, UndLdr 70, MagLdr 30,
Mag: W1B2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Norna Gold 295, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 8, Att 8, Def 4, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 10, SpSi, Fortune Teller 20, Ldr 10, UndLdr 110, MagLdr 60,
Mag: S2D2G1?1, Wpn: Dagger
412
[[page 413]]
Utgård, recruitable units
Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Huskarl Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Human Godihuskarl Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Axe
Human Godihuskarl Gold 10, Res 20, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Spear
Human Hirdman Gold 13, Res 22, Rec 16
HP 10, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 12, Wpn: Broad Sword
Jotun Bondi Gold 20, Res 15, Rec 11
HP 31, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 19, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Jotun Javelinist Gold 30, Res 17, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe, Javelin
Jotun Spearman Gold 30, Res 39, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear
Jotun Axeman Gold 30, Res 39, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Jotun Hurler Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Hand
Axe, Boulder
Jotun Huskarl Gold 35, Res 21, Rec 20
HP 35, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 20, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Godihuskarl Gold 40, Res 31, Rec 24
HP 36, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 21, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Spear, Javelin
Jotun Hirdman Gold 50, Res 41, Rec 31
HP 38, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 22, Att 12, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Broad Sword
Garmhirding Gold 55, Res 9, Rec 28 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 38, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 23, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 14, MM 18, FS, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Berserker +2, Wpn:
Battleaxe
413
[[page 414]]
Vaettiheim, Wolf Kin Jarldom
Vaettiheim is a land of bitter winters and cool summers. It is the home of the Vaettir, small and wicked goblins who once
dwelled in the icy forests of Jotunheim. When the Jarls of Jotunheim sealed the alliance with humankind the remaining
Gygjas and their Vaetti servants retreated to the wild woods. With the guidance of the few remaining Gygjas the Vaettir
formed a nation of their own. Vaettiheim is a land of Vaettir and giants centered at the Iron Wood, the ancient home of the Jotun Gygjas.
With the coming of the Awakening God the Vaetti Hags of earlier times have been more or less replaced by Vaetti Gygjas trained in the
Iron Wood and the Vaettir have adopted the weapons and armaments used by Jotuns and humans.
Race: Cold resistant, prefers Cold scale +2
Military: Small stealthy Vaettir, Wolf Riders and a few giants
Magic: Death, Glamour, Nature, Blood, Water, Astral
Priests: Weak
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1
Buildings: Primitive Forts, labs cost 300 in forests
Vaettiheim, recruitable commanders
Vaetti Herse Gold 65, Res 11, Rec 1 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +2, Rider 3, Ldr 50,
Wpn: Short Sword, Mount: Wolf
Vaetti Jarl Gold 70, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 11, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +2, Ldr 75, Wpn: Short
Sword
Vaetti Gode Gold 145, Res 6, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 9, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, CR +5, Rider 2, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10,
Mag: N1H1, Wpn: Short Sword, Mount: Wolf
Vaetti Gygja Gold 265, Res 3, Rec 2
HP 7, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 10, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, CR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 60, MagLdr 30,
Mag: W1D1G1H1?1, Wpn: Slap
Dimvaetti Gold 140, Res 8, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 9, Prot 4, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 13, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, FS, Stealth 80, CR +5, Assassin, Patience +2, Wpn:
Duskdagger, Poison Dagger
Jotun Gygja Gold 405, Res 3, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 36, Prot 9, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 18, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 18, FS, Sacr, SR -5, CR +15, Fortune Teller 10, Ldr 50,
UndLdr 70, MagLdr 40, Mag: D1G1B1H1?2, Wpn: Slap, Quarterstaff
Vaetti Hag Gold 60, Res 3, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in non-fort forests)
HP 7, Prot 7, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 8, Att 8, Def 5, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 9, MM 8, FS, Stealth 40, Research -2, CR +5, Ldr 10, UndLdr 50, Mag: ?1,
Wpn: Slap, Dagger
Vaettiheim, recruitable units
Vaetti Archer Gold 6, Res 4, Rec 8 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Light Vaetti Infantry Gold 7, Res 5, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Hatchet
Vaetti Spearman Gold 7, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 8, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Spear
Vaetti Crossbowman Gold 7, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 8, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Crossbow
Light Vaetti Infantry Gold 7, Res 5, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Spear
Hirdvaetti Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 17
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 10, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Broad Sword
414
[[page 415]]
Vaetti Berserker Gold 12, Res 10, Rec 23
HP 8, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Berserker +2, Wpn:
Battleaxe
Wolf Rider Gold 15, Res 5, Rec 9 (can also be recruited in all forests)
HP 8, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +1, Rider 1, Wpn:
Spear, Mount: Wolf
Wolf Brother Gold 20, Res 10, Rec 23
HP 8, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Pillage +1, Rider 2,
Wpn: Spear, Mount: Wolf
Moose Rider Gold 30, Res 10, Rec 9
HP 8, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 20, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Dagger, Crossbow,
Mount: Moose, Corider: Vaetti Archer
Jotun Hurler Gold 30, Res 11, Rec 17 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 33, Prot 13, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 6, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 13, MM 16, SR -5, CR +15, Siege Strength +5, Wpn: Hand
Axe, Boulder
Jotun Axeman Gold 30, Res 39, Rec 17 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 33, Prot 19, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 21, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 14, SR -5, CR +15, Wpn: Axe
Rimvaetti Gold 24, Res 17, Rec 36 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 14, FS, Sacr, Stealth 40, Cold pow 1, CR +25, Ice
Prot 2, Chill 2, Wpn: Ice Blade
Vaettiheim, mount stats
Wolf
HP 8, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 9, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 5, Enc 2, CS 26, MM 22, FS, MS, Stealth 40, Wpn: Bite
Moose
HP 38, Prot 6, MR 5, Mor 9, Str 16, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 24, MM 22, FS, Stealth 40, CR +5, Wpn: Kick, Antlers
415
[[page 416]]
Feminie, Sage-Queens
Feminie is a hidden queendom in a faraway land ruled by women. It was once an amazon queendom subservient to
Magnificent Ind, but when the Khans of T’ien Ch’i defeated the sacred armies of Ind and killed the Prester King himself, the
dominion of Ind was broken and the subservient tribes and kingdoms found themselves free from the yoke of the
Magnificent Kingdom. The sorceresses of Feminie salvaged the esoteric knowledge of the sage-priests of Ind and have become keepers of
their hidden lore. Throughout the queendom monasteries filled with ancient texts can be found. Abesses and their servants search the
books for arcane secrets to further the magical might of Feminie. The queendom is now ruled by wise and able Sage-Queens who hide
their lands from outside threats.
Race: Humans. Prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Human infantry and knights. Sacred human infantry.
Magic: Astral, Glamour, Fire and some Water and Nature.
Priests: Medium, divinely inspired researchers.
Dominion: Dominion hides province ownership.
Scales & Blesses: Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 300
Feminie, recruitable commanders
Feminie Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 4, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, FS, MS, Stealth 50, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Feminie Commander Gold 60, Res 24, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad Sword
Lady Commander Gold 145, Res 40, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 21, MR 10, Mor 15, Str 12, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword,
Mount: Destrier
Cloistered Lady Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist
Feminie Abbess Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Fist
Feminie Savant Gold 120, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Research +4, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1?1,
Wpn: Dagger
Loremistress Gold 270, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 12, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 12, Research +6, Ldr 30, MagLdr 60, Mag: F1S1G1?2,
Wpn: Dagger
Feminie Sorceress Gold 315, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Veil Army 25 units, Ldr 30, MagLdr 80, Mag:
F2S2G2, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Unseen One Gold 140, Res 24, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 90, Ldr 50, MagLdr
10, Mag: G1H1, Wpn: Broad Sword
Sage-Queen Gold 545, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 17, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 12, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 14, Sacr, Inspirational +1, Veil Army 50 units, Ldr
110, MagLdr 100, Mag: F1S3G3H2, Wpn: Fist
416
[[page 417]]
Feminie, recruitable units
Feminie Militia Gold 7, Res 4, Rec 3
HP 9, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 12, Wpn: Spear
Feminie Archer Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 16, Wpn: Dagger, Short Bow
Feminie City Guard Gold 10, Res 21, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 13, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Wpn: Glaive
Feminie Soldier Gold 10, Res 21, Rec 9
HP 10, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Spear
Feminie Swordswoman Gold 12, Res 24, Rec 14
HP 10, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 10, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword
Lady at Arms Gold 15, Res 26, Rec 21
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 14, Wpn: Broad Sword
Lady Knight Gold 55, Res 40, Rec 31
HP 12, Prot 21, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 11, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 12, MM 10, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword,
Mount: Destrier
Veiled One Gold 22, Res 21, Rec 25 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 10, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Glamour, Sacr, Stealth 90, Wpn: Spetum
Feminie, mount stats
Destrier
HP 24, Prot 20, MR 5, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Wpn: Hoof
417
[[page 418]]
Piconye, Legacy of the Prester King
Piconye is a kingdom of little horned men located in a fabulous land. It was once subservient to Magnificent Ind, but when
the Khans of T’ien Ch’i defeated the sacred armies of Ind and killed the Prester King himself, the dominion of Ind was
broken and the subservient tribes and kingdoms found themselves free from the yoke of the Magnificent Kingdom. The
little men of Piconye had never had a unified kingdom apart from Magnificent Ind and struggled to form a kingdom of their own. Heavily
influenced by their former masters Piconye turned into a theocratic monarchy with priest-soldiers and religious potentates ever present.
But where Ind had hidden their virtue from the outside world, Piconye has instead turned itself outwards in an attempt to spread the faith
of the awakening God.
Race: Little horned men. Prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Small sized infantry, Bird Knights, sacred infantry and crossbowmen.
Magic: Astral, Earth, some Fire, Water and Nature.
Priests: Powerful. Most commanders are priests. Every temple adds one to the sacred recruit limit.
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1, Bless points +1
Buildings: Standard Forts, temples cost 300
Piconye, recruitable commanders
Piconye Scout Gold 45, Res 6, Rec 1
HP 7, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 6, Att 10, Def 18, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, Stealth 75, Rider 2, Wpn: Short Sword,
Crossbow, Mount: War Bird
Bird Knight Commander Gold 110, Res 14, Rec 1
HP 9, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 8, Att 13, Def 21, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 8, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount:
War Bird
Piconye Bishop Gold 85, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Dagger
Piconye Bishop General Gold 140, Res 15, Rec 1
HP 7, Prot 14, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 5, MM 8, Sacr, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Short Sword
Piconye Arch Bishop Gold 155, Res 5, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 100, Mag: H2, Wpn:
Baculus
Piconye Sage Gold 100, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 8, Str 7, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, Research +2, Ldr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: E1?1,
Wpn: Dagger
Piconye Sage-Priest Gold 260, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited outside forts as well)
HP 8, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 7, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 8, Sacr, Ldr 30, MagLdr 50, Mag: F1E1S1H1?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Piconye Pope Gold 245, Res 5, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 7, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 6, Sacr, Inquisitor, Ldr 100, Mag: H3, Wpn:
Baculus
Prester King Gold 400, Res 13, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 12, MR 17, Mor 14, Str 7, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 8, CS 5, MM 6, Sacr, Inspirational +3, Ldr 50, MagLdr 60,
Mag: E1S2H3?1, Wpn: Short Sword
418
[[page 419]]
Piconye, recruitable units
Piconye Militia Gold 6, Res 2, Rec 9
HP 5, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 7, Str 6, Att 8, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, Stealth 40, Wpn: Pitchfork
Piconye Slinger Gold 6, Res 3, Rec 9
HP 5, Prot 7, MR 13, Mor 7, Str 6, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 10, Wpn: Dagger, Sling
Piconye Crossbowman Gold 7, Res 14, Rec 11
HP 5, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 8, Str 6, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 6, MM 8, Wpn: Dagger, Crossbow
Piconye Spearman Gold 7, Res 14, Rec 11
HP 6, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 9, Str 6, Att 10, Def 15, Prec 11, Enc 7, CS 5, MM 8, Wpn: Spear
Piconye Soldier Gold 8, Res 15, Rec 14
HP 6, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 6, Att 11, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 5, MM 8, Wpn: Short Sword
Piconye Defender Gold 9, Res 19, Rec 17
HP 7, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 11, Def 19, Prec 10, Enc 10, CS 2, MM 6, Wpn: Short Sword
Bird Knight Gold 25, Res 14, Rec 20
HP 8, Prot 14, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 12, Def 20, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 8, Rider 2, Wpn: Light Lance, Mount: War Bird
Crosswielder Gold 10, Res 14, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 6, Prot 14, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 6, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 6, MM 8, Sacr, Wpn: Dagger, Crossbow
Soldier Priest Gold 11, Res 15, Rec 17 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 7, Prot 14, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 12, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 5, MM 8, Sacr, Wpn: Short Sword
Baculite Gold 13, Res 17, Rec 20 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 8, Prot 14, MR 14, Mor 12, Str 8, Att 12, Def 17, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 5, MM 8, Sacr, Wpn: Baculus
Piconye, mount stats
War Bird
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 7, Mor 11, Str 7, Att 9, Def 12, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 4, MM 34, FS, MS, Fly, Wpn: Dive attack, Talons
419
[[page 420]]
Andramania, Dog Republic
Andramania is a republic of Calystrii, civilized and culturally advanced Cynocephalians. The Cynocephalian clans of Gog
and Magog once served Magnificent Ind and their barking hordes were released upon the enemies of the Prester King. But
when the Khans of T’ien Ch’i defeated the sacred armies of Ind and killed the Prester King himself, the dominion of Ind was
broken and all subservient tribes and kingdoms found themselves free from the yoke of the Magnificent Kingdom. The Cynocephalians
had become increasingly more civilized under the benevolent rule of the Prester King and when Ind fell cynocephalian magistrates
replaced the viceroys of Ind and united the cynocephalian tribes in a nation of virtue far beyond that of the kingdoms of men. They called
themselves Calystrii and promised never to fall back into the barbarism and gruesome practices of old. Now most Calystrii regard men
with disdain as the inferior beings they are.
Race: Cynocephalian dog-men. Prefers Heat scale +1.
Military: Skilled and disciplined infantry and crossbowmen. Conscription.
Magic: Fire, Astral, Nature, Earth and some Water. Rarely Blood or Death.
Priests: Mostly weak.
Scales & Blesses: Order limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Andramania, recruitable commanders
Calystri Scout Gold 55, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 19, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 12, Def 11, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, FS, MS, WS, Stealth 60, DV 50, Wpn:
Dagger, Bite, Short Bow
Calystri Magistrate Gold 95, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 3, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 50, Wpn: Fist, Bite
Calystri Commander Gold 115, Res 29, Rec 1
HP 21, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn: Broad Sword, Bite
Calystri General Gold 175, Res 29, Rec 2
HP 22, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 12, MM 14, DV 50, Ldr 150, Wpn: Broad Sword, Bite
Calystri Presbyter Gold 90, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 16, Prot 3, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Fist, Bite
Apprentice Magus Gold 110, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 16, Prot 5, MR 13, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, DV 50, Ldr 20, MagLdr 20, Mag: N1?1, Wpn:
Fist, Bite
Calystri Magus Gold 275, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 16, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, DV 50, Ldr 30, MagLdr 60, Mag: F1S1N2?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff, Bite
Presbyter Magistrate Gold 145, Res 11, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 5, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Baculus,
Bite
Serene Master Gold 260, Res 31, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 20, Prot 17, MR 14, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 14, Def 15, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 150, Mag: H1, Wpn: Great
Sword, Bite
Magistrate Magus Gold 370, Res 2, Rec 2 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 12, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 70, MagLdr 70, Mag:
F2E1S1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Bite
Calystri Senator Gold 465, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 5, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Ldr 70, MagLdr 80, Mag:
F2E1S1N2H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff, Bite
Howler Champion Gold 95, Res 7, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in non-fort highlands and mountains)
HP 25, Prot 8, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 14, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, MS, WS, Animal Awe +1, DV 50, Pillage +5,
Berserker +2, Ldr 50, Wpn: Broad Sword, Hatchet, Bite
420
[[page 421]]
Andramania, recruitable units
Calystri Militia Gold 20, Res 3, Rec 15
HP 18, Prot 9, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Spear, Bite
Calystri City Guard Gold 25, Res 11, Rec 22
HP 18, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 14, MM 18, DV 50, Patrol 1, Wpn: Glaive, Bite
Calystri Crossbowman Gold 25, Res 31, Rec 22
HP 18, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 13, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Short Sword, Bite,
Crossbow
Calystri Footman Gold 25, Res 13, Rec 22
HP 18, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Spear, Bite
Calystri Soldier Gold 25, Res 29, Rec 22
HP 18, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 11, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Spear, Bite
Calystri Pikeneer Gold 25, Res 27, Rec 22
HP 18, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 13, Att 12, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Pike, Bite
Calystri Man at Arms Gold 30, Res 31, Rec 29
HP 20, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Great Sword, Bite
Calystri Senatorial Guard Gold 35, Res 30, Rec 29
HP 22, Prot 17, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 13, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 12, MM 16, DV 50, Wpn: Halberd, Bite
Serene One Gold 35, Res 31, Rec 29 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 14, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 16, Sacr, DV 50, Wpn: Great Sword, Bite
Howler Gold 40, Res 7, Rec 14 (can only be recruited in non-fort highlands and mountains)
HP 22, Prot 8, MR 8, Mor 15, Str 15, Att 13, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 14, MM 18, MS, WS, Animal Awe +1, DV 50, Pillage
+2, Berserker +2, Wpn: Broad Sword, Hatchet, Bite
421
[[page 422]]
Pyrène, Cambion Kings
Pyrène is a feudal kingdom ruled by cambion, demon half breeds. For centuries Pyrène was torn with strife as noble
houses fought for the throne. For a long time no house was dominant, but then matters changed. A few lesser houses were
secretly given the support of the church. With the aid of the priesthood they were given the opportunity to sire demonic
offspring with succubi and incubi devils summoned by priests versed in blood magic. Their cambion offspring, gifted with demonic charms
and physique, made the houses rise in power and influence, and with the support of the church the power balance of the kingdom shifted.
Eventually the cambion ousted their parents and now there are almost no pure-blooded humans left in the high nobility. With the
increasing prominence of the Cambion and the priests, the Akerbeltz have been purged from the land and their Sorginak servants have
lost much of their former influence.
Race: Humans of cave-man descent with dark-vision and elemental resistance.
Military: Human infantry, crossbows and knights, sacred demon knights.
Magic: Blood, Glamour, Air and some Earth and Fire.
Priests: Average, can perform blood sacrifices.
Scales & Blesses: Turmoil limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Pyrène, recruitable commanders
Pyrènian Scout Gold 35, Res 4, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 5, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 17, FS, MS, Stealth 50, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn:
Dagger, Short Bow
Pyrènian Castellan Gold 70, Res 23, Rec 1
HP 13, Prot 15, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 13, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Pyrènian Marquess Gold 140, Res 32, Rec 1
HP 17, Prot 18, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 11, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Rider 3, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Destrier
Pyrènian Priest Gold 120, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 17, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, UndLdr 10,
MagLdr 10, Mag: B1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Cambion Count Gold 280, Res 40, Rec 2
HP 19, Prot 21, MR 15, Mor 14, Str 14, Att 14, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 11, Sacr, Demon, Research -2, FR +10, CR +5, DV
50, Blood Searcher 1, Rider 3, Ldr 100, UndLdr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: G1B1, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Black Goat
Blood Bishop Gold 285, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 11, Str 9, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 17, MS, Sacr, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, UndLdr 20,
MagLdr 30, Mag: G1B2H2, Wpn: Dagger
Cambion Countess Gold 365, Res 1, Rec 4
HP 16, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 2, CS 10, MM 17, Sacr, Demon, FR +10, CR +5, DV 50, Adept
Cross Breeder +3, Blood Searcher 1, Ldr 50, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 40, Mag: G1B2?1, Wpn: Dagger
Cambion Queen Gold 535, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 18, Prot 0, MR 18, Mor 10, Str 13, Att 13, Def 13, Prec 11, Enc 2, CS 10, MM 17, Sacr, Demon, FR +15, CR +5, SpSi, Adept Cross
Breeder +5, Blood Searcher 1, Ldr 100, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 60, Mag: G2B3?1, Wpn: Dagger
Cambion King Gold 590, Res 35, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 21, Prot 17, MR 17, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 15, Def 20, Prec 11, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 11, Sacr, Demon, Research -6, FR +15, CR +5,
SpSi, Blood Searcher 1, Rider 3, Ldr 160, UndLdr 30, MagLdr 60, Mag: G2B3?1, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Black Goat
Pyrènian Monk Gold 130, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 11, Prot 0, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 17, MS, Sacr, Research -2, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 10,
UndLdr 10, MagLdr 20, Mag: G1B1H1, Wpn: Dagger
Sorgina Gold 160, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in non-fort provinces)
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 9, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 12, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 22, FS, MS, DV 100, Ldr 10, UndLdr 20, MagLdr 30,
Mag: A1B1?1, Wpn: Dagger
422
[[page 423]]
Pyrène, recruitable units
Pyrènian Crossbowman Gold 12, Res 8, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 7, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 9, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 12, MM 17, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Mace,
Crossbow
Pyrènian Spearman Gold 12, Res 15, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 15, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Spear
Pyrènian Footman Gold 12, Res 19, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 13, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 11, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 9, MM 15, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Pyrènian Swordsman Gold 16, Res 21, Rec 16
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 9, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 13, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Great
Sword
Pyrènian Man at Arms Gold 17, Res 23, Rec 18
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 9, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 8, MM 13, MS, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Broad
Sword
Pyrènian Knight Gold 50, Res 32, Rec 27
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 9, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 10, FR +5, CR +5, DV 50, Rider 2, Wpn: Lance,
Broad Sword, Mount: Destrier
Cambion Knight Gold 95, Res 40, Rec 17 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 21, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 17, Prec 9, Enc 6, CS 12, MM 11, Sacr, Demon, FR +10, CR +5, DV 50,
Rider 3, Wpn: Lance, Broad Sword, Mount: Black Goat
Pyrène, mount stats
Destrier
HP 22, Prot 20, MR 5, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 20, MM 16, Wpn: Hoof
Black Goat
HP 29, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 13, Str 17, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 20, MM 18, FS, MS, Sacr, CR +5, Smart 100, Wpn: Head Butt
423
[[page 424]]
Erytheia, Kingdom of Two Worlds
Trade and contacts with dry land have increased to the point where Pelagian mermen have established colonies in coastal
lands. A former Arcoscephalian colony and the Pelagian colony of Erytheia, the Red Land, were joined through marriage.
When the Triton Kings of the deeps succumbed to a strange slumber the former capital of Pelagia was almost abandoned.
The mermen had become more numerous and those Tritons who did not succumb to sleep gradually became a privileged minority ruling
the scattered Pelagian seas. Eventually civil war between the Triton princes broke out. While the Tritons battled in the seas, the mermen
withdrew and formed a new coastal kingdom of mermen, Tritons and humans in Erytheia. When the Triton principalities isolated
themselves the Pelagian traditions and legacy were carried on by the mystics of the Red Land. Under the rule of the mermen ‘Kings of
Both Worlds’ the former colony thrived and expanded on land and in the seas. Now Erytheia is a coastal kingdom with some under-water
provinces governed by a marginalized Triton nobility unable to visit the high court of the merman king. The Tritons resent the current
situation and some fear this might lead to a another civil war. Triton nobles and generals have started to gather armies to reclaim the
deeps once theirs to gain wealth, or fiefdoms, or simply to prove their worth to the Kings of Both Worlds.
Race: Land and underwater, prefers Heat scale +1
Military: Amphibious mermen, aquatic Tritons and some humans. Light infantry, heavy infantry
Magic: All Elements, Astral and some Nature. Triton mages can convert water gems into astral pearls
Priests: Strong, but possibly insane.
Scales & Blesses: Heat limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
Erytheia, recruitable commanders
Erytheian Scout Gold 35, Res 6, Rec 1 (can be recruited in both land and underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, PAmph, Stealth 50, Wpn: Bronze
Spear, Javelin
Machimos Commander Gold 55, Res 16, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 10, MM 14, Ldr 75, Wpn: Short Sword
Erytheian Commander Gold 95, Res 31, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater and coastal forts)
HP 12, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 4, MM 14, PAmph, Ldr 100, Wpn: Pearl Blade
Nomarch Gold 105, Res 2, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 7, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, Sacr, PAmph, Inspirational -1, Patrol 15, Ldr
50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Sceptre
Mystic Gold 125, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Research +1, Ldr 10, MagLdr 30, Mag:
S1?1, Wpn: Bronze Dagger
Mermage Gold 135, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater and coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, PAmph, Ldr 20, MagLdr 20, Mag: W1?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Daduchos Gold 255, Res 2, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater and coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 6, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Sacr, PAmph, Research +2, Ldr 20, MagLdr
60, Mag: F1S1?2, Wpn: Torch
Prince of the Setting Sun Gold 300, Res 2, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, Sacr, PAmph, Sun Awe +2, Ldr 110, MagLdr
50, Mag: F1S1H2?3, Wpn: Sceptre
Princess of the Setting Sun Gold 300, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 11, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 8, Def 8, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 16, Sacr, PAmph, Sun Awe +2, Ldr 130, MagLdr
90, Mag: F1W1H2?3, Wpn: Fist
Triton Noble Gold 140, Res 32, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 17, Prot 17, MR 13, Mor 14, Str 13, Att 13, Def 18, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 20, MM 14, Recup, Aqua, Ldr 100, Wpn: Lance,
Bronze Spear, Mount: Armored Hippocampus
Triton Priest Gold 90, Res 2, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 14, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Aqua, Ldr 50, Mag: H1, Wpn: Coral
Club
424
[[page 425]]
Pearl Mage Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 16, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 16, Aqua, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: W2S1?1,
Wpn: Quarterstaff
Erytheia, recruitable units
Machimos Gold 9, Res 9, Rec 7
HP 10, Prot 7, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 10, Att 10, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Wpn: Short Sword, Javelin
Thyreophorite Gold 10, Res 8, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater and coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 10, MM 16, PAmph, Wpn: Bronze Spear, Javelin
Erytheian Crossbowman Gold 10, Res 7, Rec 9 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 8, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, PAmph, Wpn: Bronze Dagger,
Gastraphetes
Erytheian Hoplite Gold 12, Res 29, Rec 14 (can be recruited in underwater and coastal forts)
HP 10, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 5, MM 12, PAmph, Wpn: Bronze Long Spear
Erytheian Phalangite Gold 14, Res 20, Rec 18 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 11, Prot 15, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 11, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 8, MM 12, PAmph, Wpn: Long Spear
Soldier of the Setting Sun Gold 30, Res 36, Rec 31 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 14, Mor 13, Str 11, Att 11, Def 14, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 5, MM 12, Sacr, PAmph, Sun Awe +1, Wpn: Pearl
Blade
Triton Militia Gold 8, Res 2, Rec 5 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 9, Str 12, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Spear
Triton Soldier Gold 10, Res 21, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 15, Prot 14, MR 12, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 10, Enc 7, CS 16, MM 16, Aqua, Wpn: Short Bronze Trident
Triton Hoplite Gold 13, Res 27, Rec 16 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 16, Prot 18, MR 12, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 9, CS 14, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Coral Long Spear
Triton Knight Gold 50, Res 25, Rec 23 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 16, Prot 17, MR 12, Mor 13, Str 13, Att 12, Def 16, Prec 10, Enc 6, CS 20, MM 14, Recup, Aqua, Wpn: Lance, Bronze
Spear, Mount: Armored Hippocampus
Erytheia, mount stats
Armored Hippocampus
HP 25, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 5, Enc 5, CS 27, MM 22, Recup, Aqua, Smart 100, Wpn: Alicorn, Tail
Flipper
425
[[page 426]]
Atlantis, Frozen Sea
With the Second Fall of Atlantis and the demise of the Coral Queens at the hands of R'lyeh, the Atlantians were forced to
retreat from the seas. A few surviving Kings of the Deep entered a pact with a sleeping God at a forsaken coast of ice and
bones. The Atlantian Angakut, Shaman Kings, lead the Bone Cult and practice Death magic previously unheard of in
Atlantian history. The Angakut have coerced captured Caelian ice crafters to yield the secrets of their skills and now most of the
Atlantians use arms of enchanted ice. Even their great city is built on interlinked ice floes.
Race: Amphibious, ocean sailing, trace income across oceans, prefers Cold scale +2
Military: Polearms, magical ice armaments, no missile weapons other than harpoons
Magic: Water, Death, some Air, Earth, Astral and Fire
Priests: Medium
Scales & Blesses: Cold limit +1, Death limit +1
Buildings: Ice Forts in coastal provinces
Atlantis, recruitable commanders
Tent Owner Gold 35, Res 5, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, Amph, Stealth 40, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 10, Wpn:
Stone Spear, Harpoon
Snow Captain Gold 95, Res 26, Rec 1
HP 14, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Ice Armor 1, Ldr 100, Wpn:
Ice Glaive
Ice Captain Gold 150, Res 32, Rec 2
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, CR +10, DV 50, Ice Armor 2, Ldr 150,
Wpn: Ice Glaive
Tungalik Gold 150, Res 4, Rec 2
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 14, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, Sacr, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Ldr 50, UndLdr 50,
MagLdr 10, Mag: W1D1H1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Angakok Gold 595, Res 7, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 27, Prot 16, MR 16, Mor 13, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 14, Sacr, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Army Sail, Ship Size
10, Gift of Water Breathing 120 size points, Ldr 100, UndLdr 100, MagLdr 40, Mag: W3D2H2?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Shambler Chief Gold 70, Res 2, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 22, Prot 6, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 15, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 75, Wpn: Coral Club, Claw
Merciful Mother Gold 135, Res 5, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 22, Prot 9, MR 15, Mor 13, Str 14, Att 9, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Sacr, Amph, Undreaming 8, DV 50, Void Sanity 10,
Ldr 50, Mag: H2, Wpn: Mace
Unsleeping Consort Gold 160, Res 23, Rec 1 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 27, Prot 16, MR 13, Mor 15, Str 16, Att 12, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 12, Sacr, Amph, Undreaming 8, DV 50, Void Sanity
10, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Ldr 100, Mag: H1, Wpn: Coral Glaive
Forgiving Father Gold 260, Res 3, Rec 2 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 20, Prot 9, MR 16, Mor 11, Str 14, Att 9, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Amph, Undreaming 8, DV 50, Void Sanity 10,
Gift of Water Breathing 50 size points, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: W2S1?1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Atlantis, recruitable units
Seal Hunter Gold 10, Res 5, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Stone Spear,
Harpoon
Snow Warrior Gold 10, Res 22, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice
Spear
Snow Warrior Gold 10, Res 26, Rec 9
HP 12, Prot 15, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Ice Armor 1, Wpn: Ice
Glaive
426
[[page 427]]
Ice Warrior Gold 13, Res 37, Rec 15
HP 13, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 12, Str 11, Att 11, Def 13, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 12, Amph, CR +10, DV 50, Ice Armor 2, Wpn:
Ice Spear
Ice Guard Gold 16, Res 39, Rec 21
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 15, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 12, Amph, CR +10, DV 50, Ice Armor 2, Wpn:
Ice Blade
Ice Guard Gold 16, Res 32, Rec 21
HP 15, Prot 18, MR 10, Mor 13, Str 12, Att 12, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, CR +10, DV 50, Ice Armor 2, Wpn: Ice
Glaive
Mournful Gold 25, Res 13, Rec 30
HP 20, Prot 16, MR 10, Mor 9, Str 14, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Halberd
Arssartut Gold 23, Res 10, Rec 25 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 16, Prot 13, MR 11, Mor 14, Str 12, Att 13, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 12, Sacr, Amph, CR +5, DV 50, Wpn: Bone
Glaive
Atlantian Light Infantry Gold 10, Res 9, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 8, Prec 8, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn:
Coral Spear
Atlantian Shield Bearer Gold 10, Res 3, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Spear
Atlantian Infantry Gold 10, Res 12, Rec 9 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 11, Prec 8, Enc 6, CS 7, MM 12, Amph, DV 50, Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg,
Wpn: Coral Spear
Unsleeping Gold 35, Res 23, Rec 47 (can be recruited in underwater forts)
HP 24, Prot 16, MR 12, Mor 14, Str 15, Att 11, Def 12, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 12, Amph, Undreaming 4, DV 50, Void Sanity 5,
Poison Barbs 5 AN dmg, Wpn: Coral Glaive
427
[[page 428]]
R'lyeh, Dreamlands
In ages past, a distant star inhabited by a great race of strange, alien beings was struck with an unimaginable catastrophe.
The star fell from the heavens, breaking into tiny shards. One such shard fell through the Spheres and down upon the
world. The shard came to rest on the ocean floor and there a remnant of this great race adapted and survived. They
multiplied and enslaved a race of fishlike humanoids by sheer strength of mind and conquered the underwater realms of the world. In the
halls of R'lyeh the Starspawns, the Great Ones who survived the Fall opened a gate into the Void and unleashed its horrors upon the
world. But the Void was not to be controlled even by the Starspawns. The very fabric of the Veil was weakened and madness struck the
inhabitants of mighty R'lyeh. Only the most powerful of the Starspawns were able to keep their minds intact. The Empire crumbled as
insanity took the leaders and the former slaves and servants of the Empire were able to lift the yoke of R'lyeh.  But now a God is
awakening, and it is a God Dreaming of the Void. The mind-breaking Dreams of the Sleeping God plague the inhabitants of coastal and
underwater cities and with the Dreams come the horrors. Strange, cannibalistic cults worshiping the Void call them from Beyond. The
Dreamlands of R'lyeh threaten to destroy the world. All coastal forts of R'lyeh have a special well where women can submerge themselves
in the hope of being impregnated by a Great One. However, most will be taken by Deep Ones instead and the women's offspring will be
strange, fishlike humanoids instead of the noble Starchildren they wanted. These half-human hybrids are usually devoted to the cause of
putting mankind below the sea and often join the army of R'lyeh free of charge.
Race: Underwater
Military: Atlantian and Oceanian slaves, hybrids, Illithids
Magic: Astral, Water, Glamour, Earth, and some Nature
Priests: Average, can summon Void Beings, might get additional insane prophets
Dominion effect: Kills population. Creates dreamers, madmen and Void Beings. Makes all non-Void Beings apart from the pretender insane.
Scales & Blesses: Sloth limit +1, Magic limit +1
Buildings: Standard Forts
R'lyeh, recruitable commanders
Scout Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 14, Amph, Stealth 50, DV 50, Wpn: Coral Knife
Traitor Prince Gold 110, Res 43, Rec 1
HP 27, Prot 21, MR 15, Mor 12, Str 16, Att 12, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 7, MM 10, Amph, DV 50, Ldr 100, Wpn: Meteorite Trident
Illithid Lord Gold 110, Res 42, Rec 1
HP 30, Prot 17, MR 16, Mor 12, Str 15, Att 11, Def 8, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 14, Magic, Amph, BlR, TM +2, SpSi, Void Sanity 10,
Ldr 50, MagLdr 50, Wpn: Meteorite Trident, Mind Blast
Void Cultist Gold 40, Res 1, Rec 1 (can be recruited in land forts)
HP 9, Prot 0, MR 14, Mor 15, Str 9, Att 7, Def 7, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Sacr, Stealth 40, Ldr 50, MagLdr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn:
Stone Dagger
Slave Priest Gold 65, Res 1, Rec 1
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 11, Prec 9, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 18, Sacr, Amph, Ldr 10, Mag: H1, Wpn: Quarterstaff
Star Child Gold 115, Res 1, Rec 2 (can also be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 14, Prot 2, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Amph, Stealth 55, BlR, SpSi, Assassin, Patience
+2, Void Sanity 5, MagLdr 30, Mag: S1, Wpn: Meteorite Dagger, Mind Blast
Slave Mage Gold 245, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 15, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 8, Def 10, Prec 9, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 16, Amph, Ldr 10, MagLdr 50, Mag: W2S1?1, Wpn:
Quarterstaff
Starspawn Gold 430, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 30, Prot 5, MR 18, Mor 9, Str 16, Att 11, Def 7, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, Sacr, Magic, Amph, BlR, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Ldr
10, MagLdr 120, Mag: S2G1H2?1, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast
Starspawn Gold 410, Res 1, Rec 4 (can only be recruited in the capital)
HP 26, Prot 5, MR 20, Mor 9, Str 15, Att 9, Def 6, Prec 13, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, Magic, Amph, BlR, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Ldr 10,
MagLdr 190, Mag: S3G1?2, Wpn: Life Drain, Mind Blast
Hybrid Commander Gold 70, Res 19, Rec 1 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 16, Prot 12, MR 13, Mor 10, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 14, Amph, SpSi, Ldr 75, MagLdr 10, Wpn: Bronze
Trident, Mind Blast
428
[[page 429]]
R'lyeh, recruitable units
Lobo Guard Gold 5, Res 1, Rec 2
HP 13, Prot 2, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 12, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 5, Enc 3, CS 8, MM 14, Magic, Mind, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Claw
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 2, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 9, MM 14, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 12, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 2, Rec 6
HP 10, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 22, MM 18, Amph, Wpn: Net, Stone Spear
Slave Trooper Gold 9, Res 1, Rec 6
HP 15, Prot 1, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 20, MM 16, Aqua, Wpn: Stone Spear
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 6
HP 10, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 10, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 21, MM 16, Amph, Wpn: Stone Spear
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 11, Rec 6
HP 15, Prot 11, MR 12, Mor 7, Str 12, Att 11, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 4, CS 19, MM 14, Aqua, Wpn: Bone Trident
Slave Guardian Gold 9, Res 10, Rec 6
HP 12, Prot 10, MR 10, Mor 7, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 4, CS 8, MM 12, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Bone Trident
Meteorite Guard Gold 13, Res 33, Rec 16
HP 14, Prot 19, MR 13, Mor 12, Str 12, Att 11, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 7, CS 5, MM 8, Amph, DV 100, Wpn: Meteorite Trident
Shambler Thrall Gold 20, Res 1, Rec 22
HP 24, Prot 7, MR 5, Mor 50, Str 16, Att 9, Def 7, Prec 4, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Magic, Mind, Trample, Amph, DV 50, Wpn: Claw
Crab Hybrid Gold 35, Res 1, Rec 33
HP 25, Prot 14, MR 10, Mor 14, Str 17, Att 8, Def 9, Prec 8, Enc 3, CS 11, MM 16, Aqua, DV 50, Wpn: Pincer, Pincer
Illithid Gold 50, Res 1, Rec 37
HP 28, Prot 5, MR 15, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 12, Enc 2, CS 8, MM 16, Magic, Amph, BlR, SpSi, Void Sanity 10, Wpn: Life
Drain, Mind Blast
Illithid Soldier Gold 50, Res 42, Rec 37
HP 28, Prot 17, MR 16, Mor 10, Str 15, Att 10, Def 7, Prec 7, Enc 4, CS 7, MM 14, Magic, Amph, BlR, DV 100, SpSi, Void Sanity 10,
Wpn: Meteorite Trident, Mind Blast
Hybrid Gold 12, Res 3, Rec 21 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 13, Prot 5, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 10, Prec 10, Enc 3, CS 10, MM 16, Amph, SpSi, Wpn: Spear, Tentacle
Hybrid Trooper Gold 13, Res 6, Rec 24 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 13, Prot 8, MR 10, Mor 11, Str 12, Att 10, Def 13, Prec 10, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 14, Amph, SpSi, Wpn: Spear, Tentacle
Hybrid Soldier Gold 14, Res 19, Rec 26 (can only be recruited in coastal forts)
HP 15, Prot 12, MR 12, Mor 10, Str 11, Att 10, Def 9, Prec 11, Enc 5, CS 8, MM 14, Amph, SpSi, Wpn: Bronze Trident
429
[[page 430]]
Launch Options
The following launch options (command line options) can be used to modify the behavior of the game before it starts up. Most players will
not need to use this feature, but it can be used to automate things or help if the game doesn't start properly.
The short options can be combined e.g. "-sw" will start without sound and in a window.
-v  --version       Print version number and exit
-d                  Increase debug level
-g  --host          Generate new turn and exit
    --verify        Verify all 2h-files and exit (creates .chk files)
    --statfile      Create a player info file after each turn (stats.txt)
    --scoredump     Create a score file after each turn (scores.html)
    --finalhost     Generate new turn, send out final score msg and exit
-c  --nocredits     Disables the end credits
    --noedgescroll  Disables edge scrolling
    --edgescroll    Enables edge scrolling in fullscreen mode
    --winedgescroll Enables edge scrolling always
    --askifplayed   Will ask if you want to redo turn if possible
    --noshowscouts  Do not show allied scouts on map
    --autoorder     Put new mages on research by default
    --multimove     Enable multiple turn movement
    --maxunits X    Sets max nbr of units in a game (default and max 600000)
    --listnations   Prints a list of all nation numbers
    --multiai X     Create up to X processes for AI computations (0=off) (Linux only)
    --nothread      Don't use multithreading
    --nomappopups   Don't show popups on the main map
    --nosteam       Do not connect to steam (workshop will be unavailable)
    --nocrashbox    Don't show a dialogue box with crash message on (Windows only)
    --useolddata    Try to preserve battle replays after upgrading
    --gamepad       Enable gamepad/joystick inputs
    --nogamepad     Disable gamepad/joystick inputs
    --backup        Create a tar archive of save before hosting (Linux only)
******* Network Options *******
    --lobby         Enter game lobby
    --lgpasswd XXX  Password for lobby game
-C  --tcpclient     Connect to a Dominions multiplayer server
-S  --tcpserver     Start a Dominions multiplayer server
    --tcpquery      Query Dominions server about game status and exit
    --ipadr XXX     Use this IP-adr when connecting to server
    --port X        Use this port nbr
    --preexec CMD   Execute this command before each new turn
    --postexec CMD  Execute this command after each new turn
-t  --hosttime X Y  Host on day X (0=sunday) hour Y (0-23)
    --minutes X     Set host interval in minutes
    --hours X       Set host interval in hours
    --pauseday X    Stop timer on this day (0=sunday)
    --timeleft X    Hours until first host (default = full host interval)
    --noquickhost   Don't host just because all turns are done
    --maxholdups X  Quickhost disregards players that have stalled last X turns
-n  --nonationsel   No nation selection when resuming a network game
-o  --onserver      I'm playing on the server, don't ask
    --noclientstart Clients cannot start the game during Choose Participants
430
[[page 431]]
--uploadtime X  Game is created after this many minutes.
    --uploadmaxp X  Game is created if this many players join.
    --closed X      Nation closed X=nation number (5-499)
    --easyai X      Nation ai controlled X=nation number (5-499)
    --normai X      Nation ai controlled X=nation number (5-499)
    --diffai X      Nation ai controlled X=nation number (5-499)
    --mightyai X    Nation ai controlled X=nation number (5-499)
    --masterai X    Nation ai controlled X=nation number (5-499)
    --impai X       Nation ai controlled X=nation number (5-499)
    --team X Y Z    X=nation, Y=team, Z=type (type: 1=pretender, 2=disciple)
    --statuspage XX Create html page that shows who needs to play their turn
    --statusdump    Continuously create info on players in a parsable format
    --nodownlmods   Don't download mods from game server automatically
    --nomaster      Disallow download/upload turns using the master password
    --timerwarn X   Warning sound when less than X seconds left (0=disable)
******* New Game Options *******
    --mapfile XXX   Filename of map. E.g. eye.map
    --randmap X     Make and use a random map with X prov per player (10,15,20)
    --research X    Research difficulty 0 to 4 (default 2)
    --norandres     No random start research
    --hofsize X     Size of Hall of Fame 5-15 (default 10)
    --mercsize X    Maximum number of Mercs 0-10 (default 5)
    --globals X     Global Enchantment slots 3-9 (default 5)
    --yearning X    Yearning chance for artifacts (default 50)
    --indepstr X    Strength of Independents 0-9 (default 5)
    --magicsites X  Magic site frequency 0-75 (default 40)
    --eventrarity X Random event rarity 1-2, 1=common 2=rare
    --richness X    Money multiple 50-300 (default 100)
    --resources X   Resource multiple 50-300 (default 100)
    --recruitment X Unit recruitment point multiple 50-300 (default 100)
    --supplies X    Supply multiple 50-300 (default 100)
    --masterpass XX Master password. E.g. masterblaster
    --startprov X   Number of starting provinces (1-9)
    --renaming      Enable commander renaming
    --scoregraphs   Enable score graphs during play
    --nonationinfo  No info at all on other nations
    --weakdiplo     Formal dimplomacy is non-binding
    --nodiplo       No formal dimplomacy
    --nocheatdet    Turns off cheat detection
    --era X         New game created in this era (1-3)
    --nomods        Disable all mods
-M  --enablemod XXX Enable the mod with filename XXX
    --noartrest     Players can create more than one artifact per turn
    --nolvl9rest    Players research lvl 9 spells as fast as any other spells
    --teamgame      Disciple game, multiple players on same team
    --clustered     Clustered start positions for team game
    --edgestart     Edge start positions for team game
    --nostoryevents Disable all story events
    --storyevents   Enable some story events
    --allstoryevents Enable all story events
    --newgame       Create a new game and exit (for scripted game creation)
    --newailvl X    AI level for human players who quit (1-6, def 2)
431
[[page 432]]
--nonewai       Disable become AI controlled
******* New Game Victory Condition *******
    --conqall        Win by eliminating all opponents only
    --thrones X Y Z  Number of thrones of level 1, 2 and 3
    --requiredap X   Ascension points required for victory (def total-1)
    --cataclysm X    Cataclysm will occur on turn X (def off)
******* Random Map Options *******
    --makemap XXX    Generate a random map with filename XXX and exit
    --tgapreview     Also make a tga preview for the random map
    --blueprint XXX  Use this TGA/PNG file as blueprint for random map
    --blueacc X      0-9, the blueprint accuracy (default 2)
    --noundercaves   Don't create a underworld plane with caves
    --riverpart X    0-1000, 0=no rivers (default 100)
    --bridges X      Bridge chance 0-100, 0=no bridges (default 60)
    --extraislands X Chance of extra islands 0-100, (default 0)
    --seapart X      Percent of map that is below water level (default 45)
    --cavepart X     Percent of under caves plane that is caves (default 20)
    --mountpart X    Percent of map that is mountains (default 20)
    --forestpart X   Percent of lands that are forests (default 20)
    --farmpart X     Percent of lands that are farm lands (default 15)
    --wastepart X    Percent of lands that are wastes (default 10)
    --swamppart X    Percent of lands that are swamps (default 10)
    --kelppart X     Percent of seas that are kelp forests (default 25)
    --gorgepart X    Percent of deeps seas that are gorges (default 25)
    --mapsize W H    Set width and height of random map (default 3000 2000)
    --mapprov X      Set number of provinces (default 150)
    --mapscol R G B A   Sea color 0-255 (default 54 54 130 255)
    --mapdscol R G B A  Deep Sea color 0-255 (default depending on mapscol)
    --mapccol R G B A   Coast color 0-255 (default depending on mapscol)
    --mapbcol R G B A   Ground border color 0-255
    --mapsbcol R G B A  Sea border color 0-255
    --mapbtopcol R G B A   Top border color 0-255
    --mapnoise X     Ground color noise 0-255 (default 15)
    --mapdirt X      Amount of dirt blobs (default 100)
    --mapdirtcol X   Color variance of dirt blobs (default 5)
    --mapdirtsize X  Size of dirt blobs (default 100)
    --borderwidth X  Border width 0-500 (default 100)
    --hills X        Number of Hills/Craters (default 150)
    --rugedness X    Rugedness 0-100 (default 30)
    --seasize X      Sea size, 100=normal land size (default 350)
    --mapnospr       Don't draw any sprites on the map
    --nowaterprov    Don't put any capitals in the water areas
    --vwrap          Make map wrap north/south
    --nohwrap        Make map not wrap east/west
    --mapbunch X     When making a bunch, make this many maps (default 12)
    --quiet          Don't print stuff
******* Graphics Options *******
-w  --window        Run Dominions 6 in a window
-u  --fullscreen    Use the entire screen
    --borderless    Use a borderless fullscreen window
432
[[page 433]]
--bitplanes X   Try to use a color depth of X bits per pixel
    --zbuffer X     Try to use a depth buffer of X bits per pixel (default 24)
-T  --textonly      Use this with --tcpserver to get graphicless server
    --gamma X       Set gamma function (brightness) 0.1 - 5.0 (default 1.0)
    --opacity X     Set gui opacity 0 - 100
-r  --res X Y       Set screen resolution / window size
    --animback      Use animated backgrounds
-a  --noanimback    Don't use animated backgrounds
    --fade          Use fade effects
-f  --nofade        No fade effects
    --nopopups      No helpful popups
    --maxfps X      Maximum nbr of frames per second (default 60)
    --filtering X   Quality of OpenGL filtering 0-3 (default 2)
    --maxtexsize X  Max texture size in pixels 8-4096 (default unlimited)
    --texqual X     Texture quality 1-5 (default 3)
    --notracers     Visual aid, puts a particle trace after arrows
    --nomapcolrit   Don't color map remote ritual dots per path
    --nolightfx     No light effects in battles
    --partamount X  Max nbr of particles 0-9 (0=none, 4=default, 9=max)
    --noarcade      Don't draw floating damage numbers
    --batflash      Flash units green/magenta when receiving buffs/debuffs
    --nonetinfo     Don't draw timer and flags during network play
    --glfinish      Flush the graphics pipeline each frame
    --noglfinish    Don't flush the graphics pipeline each frame
    --noglext       Don't use any OpenGL extensions
-x  --fastgrx       Faster and simpler graphics
    --simpgui       Use a simple GUI without any background textures
    --gfxlevel X    Graphics level 1-20 (default 10, 14 = very high)
    --multisample X Use multisampling, X=number of samples (0-16)
    --renderpath X  Use a different rendering method 0-3 (default 2)
    --benchmark     Run a graphics benchmark and exit
    --softmouse     Draw a mouse cursor instead of using the standard OS one
    --textsize X    Set size of text in percent (small 90, std 100, huge 120)
    --battextsize X Set size of floating texts in battles (std 100)
    --nowarnings    Disable warnings for bad graphics drivers
******* Audio Options *******
-s  --nosound       No sound effects or music
-m  --nomusic       No music
    --musicvol X    Set music volume, 0-100 (default 100)
    --fxvol X       Set sound effect volume, 0-100 (default 100)
    --clickvol X    Set mouse click volume, 0-100 (default 25)
    --randpitch X   Set max sound effect pitch randomness (default 3)
    --noturnsound   Don't play a sound when a new turn arrives (network only)
    --jack          Route sound through JACK sound server (Linux)
    --pulseaudio    Route sound through pulse audio (Linux)
    --alsa          Use direct alsa sound output (Linux)
    --oss           Use direct oss sound output (Linux)
    --portaudio     Use portaudio for sound (Linux & OSX)
    --directsound   Use direct sound (Windows)
    --waveout       Use waveout for sound (Windows)
    --sdlsound      Force usage of default sdl sound device (Windows)
433
[[page 434]]
A
A Short History of Dominions  6
Abominable Arms  112
About The Creation of Dominions 4  7
About the Creation of Dominions 5  9
About the Creation of Dominions 6  11
Abysia  89
Abysia, Blood and Fire  327
Abysia, Blood of Humans  389
Abysia, Children of Flame  263
Acashic Knowledge  223
Acashic Record  223
Access to Magic Spells  74
Acid Bolt  121
Acid damage  67
Acid Rain  121
Acid Spray  121
Acid Storm  121
Acorn Necklace  111
Additional abilities  40
Admin  25
Afflictions  41, 71
Agartha  89
Agartha, Golem Cult  319
Agartha, Ktonian Dead  385
Agartha, Pale Ones  261
Agony  130
AI Opponents  30
Air Shield  120
Alchemical Transmutation  221
Alchemist's Stone  113
Alchemy  81
All-consuming Pyre  120
Amalgamation of Air and Flesh  192
Amalgamation of Earth and Flesh  192
Amalgamation of Fire and Flesh  192
Amalgamation of Water and Flesh  192
Ambush of Tigers  161, 162, 180, 181, 
198
Amon Hotep  108
Amulet of Antimagic  111
Amulet of Breathing  110
Amulet of Clarity  110
Amulet of Giants  111
Amulet of Missile Protection  110
Amulet of Resilience  111
Amulet of the Dead  111
Amulet of the Doppelganger  113
Amulet of the Fish  111
Anathema  138
Andramania, Dog Republic  420
Anemone Mace  100
Angelic Choir  172, 174, 192
Angelic Host  172, 174, 192
Animal Horde  149
Animate Dead  125
Animate Skeleton  125
Animate Tree  126
Animated Weapons  64
Antimagic  124
Apostasy  136, 138
Appointing a prophet  83
Arcane Analysis  223
Arcane Bolt  124
Arcane Decree  211
Arcane Domination  125
Arcane Lens  112
Arcane Nexus  211
Arcane Probing  223
Arcoscephale  89
Arcoscephale, Golden Era  243
Arcoscephale, Sibylline Guidance  373
Arcoscephale, The Old Kingdom  303
Ardmon's Soul Trap  113
Armor defeating hits  61
Armor of Achilles  123
Armor of Knights  106
Armor of Meteoritic Iron  106
Armor of Souls  106
Armor of the Dawn  107
Armor of the Five Elements  106
Armor of Twisting Thorns  106
Armor of Virtue  107
Army of Bronze  124
Army of Giants  126
Army of Gold  123
Army of Lead  123
Army of Mist  120
Army of Rats  126
Army of Shades  128
Army of the Dead  147
Army Regeneration  126
Army rout  70
Army Setup  43, 58
Arouse Hunger  147
Arrow Fend  120
Arrow of the Western Wind  120
Arrow Ward  120
Aseftik's Armor  107
Ashdod, Reign of the Anakim  329
Ashes to Ashes  131
Asphodel  89
Asphodel, Carrion Woods  308
Assassinate  52
Astral Corruption  214
Astral Disruption  223
Astral Fires  124
Astral Geyser  124
Astral Healing  124
Astral Projection  223
Astral Serpent  111
Astral Shield  124
Astral Tempest  124
Astral Travel  223
Astral Window  223
At the End of the Rainbow  228
Atlantis, Emergence of the Deep Ones  
300
Atlantis, Frozen Sea  426
Atlantis, Kings of the Deep  369
Atlas of Creation  113
Attack Current Province  55
Attentive Statues  173
Augury  217
Aura of Bewilderment  128
Aura of Splendor  128
Aurora Borealis  128
Auspex  219
Authors Note  12
Automatic Bless Effects  37
Awaken Algae Men  149
Awaken Dark Vines  153
Awaken Draugar  166, 167, 186, 203
Awaken Forest  126
Awaken Hamadryad  155, 156, 170, 172, 
189, 190
Awaken Ivy King  149
Awaken Jinn Block  176
Awaken Jotun Draugar  168, 188, 204
Awaken Sepulchral  191
Awaken Shard Wights  173, 191
Awaken Sleeper  151
Awaken Tarrasque  149
434
[[page 435]]
Awaken Tattoos  133
Awaken Tomb Oracle  191
Awaken Treelord  149
Awaken Vine Men  149
Awaken Vine Ogres  149
Axe of Hate  101
Axe of Sharpness  100
B
Bag of Winds  111
Baleful Star  223
Bandar Log, Kailasa, Lanka and Patala  90
Bandar Log, Land of the Apes  336
Bane Blade  100, 102
Bane Fire  125
Bane Fire Dart  125
Bane Venom Charm  111
Banefire Crossbow  104
Banish Demon  130
Banishment  131
Banner of the Northern Star  103
Banquet for the Dead  175
Barathrus Pact  157, 173
Barkskin  126
Barkskin Amulet  110
Barrel of Air  112
Barrier  105
Basic attributes  38
Basic Game Functions  18
Battle Fortune  128
Battle Fury  118
Battle Magic  75
Battle Magic mechanics  75
Battle Orders  44
Battle position  44
Battle sequence  58
Battle Summary  73
Battlefield movement  60
Battlefield Spells  118
Battles View  58
Bear Claw Talisman  109
Beast Fury  126
Beast Mastery  128
Beckoning  228
Become Prophet  54
Behemoth  147
Bell of Cleansing  113
Berserker Pelt  105
Berytos  90
Berytos, The Phoenix Empire  286
Bewitching Lights  128
Bind Arch Devil  153
Bind Beast Bats  163, 164, 183, 200, 201
Bind Bone Fiends  153
Bind Demon Knight  153
Bind Demon Lord  153
Bind Devil  153
Bind Fiend  153
Bind Fiery Imps  153
Bind Frost Fiend  153
Bind Harlequin  192
Bind Heliophagus  153
Bind Ice Devil  153
Bind Incubus  153
Bind Jaguar Fiends  163, 164, 183, 200, 
201
Bind Keres  155, 169, 170, 186, 189
Bind Penumbral  157
Bind Scorpion Beast  141
Bind Serpent Fiends  153
Bind Shadow Imp  153
Bind Spine Devil  153
Bind Storm Demon  153
Bind Succubus  153
Bind Tzitzimitl  163, 183, 200
Bind Umbral  157
Birch Boots  109
Black Bow of Botulf  104
Black Death  225
Black Dragon Scale Mail  106
Black Halberd  102
Black Laurel  107
Blacksteel Barding  114
Blacksteel Full Plate  105
Blacksteel Helmet  107
Blacksteel Kite Shield  104
Blacksteel Plate  105
Blacksteel Sword  99
Blacksteel Tower Shield  104
Blade of Grass  100
Blade Wind  123
Blast of Unlife  125
Bleed  130
Bless Effects  32
Blessing  131
Blessing of the God-slayer  231
Blight  221
Blindness  118
Blink  124
Blizzard  120
Blood Boil  130
Blood Burst  130
Blood Feast  230
Blood Fecundity  230
Blood Heal  130
Blood Hunt  51
Blood Lust  130
Blood Moon  214
Blood Pendant  112
Blood Poisoning  126
Blood Rain  130
Blood Rite  153
Blood Sacrifices  84
Blood Stone  111
Blood Thorn  101
Blood Vortex  214
Bloodletting  131
Bloodstone Armor  106
Blue Dragon Scale Mail  106
Blur  128
Blurred Body  128
Boar Leather Barding  114
Body Ethereal  124
Bogarus, Age of Heroes  410
Bogarus, Vanarus, and Rus  90
Boil  118
Bolt of Unlife  125
Bonds of Fire  118
Bone Armor  106
Bone Grinding  126
Bone Melter  121
Boots of Antaeus  109
Boots of Giant Strength  109
Boots of Grasping Earth  109
Boots of Long Strides  109
Boots of Quickness  109
Boots of Seven Mile Strides  109
Boots of Stone  109
Boots of the Behemoth  109
Boots of the Messenger  109
Boots of the Planes  109
Boots of the Spider  109
Boots of Youth  109
Bottle of Living Water  112
435
[[page 436]]
Bow of the Titans  104
Bow of War  104
Bowl of Blood  230
Bracers of Protection  110
Brazen Vessel  111
Break Siege  52
Break the First Soul  134, 137, 140
Break the Fourth Soul  134, 137, 140
Break the Second Soul  134, 137, 140
Break the Third Soul  134, 137, 140
Breath of the Desert  217
Breath of the Dragon  126
Breath of Winter  121
Brightmail Haubergeon  106
Brightmail Hauberk  106
Brimstone Boots  109
Brood of Garm  167, 168, 188, 204
Burden of Time  211
Burn  118
Burning Blade  100
Burning Hands  118
Burning Pearl  110
C
C'tis  91
C'tis, Desert Tombs  407
C'tis, Lizard Kings  282
C'tis, Miasma  350
Caelum  91
Caelum, Eagle Kings  277
Caelum, Reign of the Seraphim  342
Caelum, Return of the Raptors  393
Call Abomination  147
Call Ahurani  163, 183, 194
Call Amesha Spenta  163, 183, 194
Call Ancestor  133, 134, 139
Call Ancient Presence  143
Call Anzus  159, 177
Call Apkallu  159, 177
Call Arel  175, 177, 195, 205
Call Celestial Soldiers  161, 180, 198
Call Celestial Yazad  163, 183, 194
Call Cyclops Tribe  177, 205
Call Daevas  163, 183, 194
Call Ephor  169
Call Fravashi  163, 183, 194
Call God  36
Call Greater Daeva  163, 183, 194
Call Hashmal  175, 177, 195, 205
Call Horror  130
Call Jahi  163, 183, 194
Call Krakens  143
Call Ladon  186, 206
Call Lesser Horror  130
Call Malakh  175, 177, 195, 205
Call Melqart  166
Call Merkavah  175, 177, 195, 205
Call of the Drugvant  233, 236, 239
Call of the Wild  149
Call of the Winds  142
Call Ophan  175, 177, 195, 205
Call Spectral Philosopher  169
Call the Birds of Splendor  177, 205
Call the Eater of the Dead  147
Call the Worm That Walks  149
Call Wraith Lord  147
Call Yata  163, 183, 194
Calm Emotions  121
Capsule screen  23
Capture Slaves  54
Carcator the Pocket Lich  113
Carmine Cleaver  103
Carrier Birds  219
Carrier Eagle  219
Carrion Bow  104
Carrion Centaur  171
Carrion Fortress  235
Carrion Growth  135
Carrion Lady  171
Carrion Lord  171
Carrion Reanimation  147
Carrion Seed  112
Castle Guards and Wall Defenders  26
Cat Charm  110
Cat Eyes  126
Cat's Eye Amulet  110
Cat-eyed Warriors  126
Cataclysm  17
Cauldron of the Elven Halls  111
Celestial Chastisement  134, 137, 139
Celestial Hounds  161, 180, 198
Celestial Music  134, 137
Celestial Rainbow  213
Celestial Servant  161, 180, 198
Chain Lightning  120
Chain Mail of Displacement  106
Chains of Reconstruction  112
Champion's Skull  110
Charcoal Shield  105
Charge Body  120
Charm  128
Charm Animal  126
Cheat prevention  17
Chi Shoes  109
Choleria  217
Choosing an Age  14
Choosing participants  15
Chorus Master  136
Chorus Slave  136
Claim Life  131
Clam of Pearls  110
Claws of Kokytos  130
Claymen  143
Cleansing Water  121
Cloak of Invisibility  106
Clockwork Bird  110
Clockwork Horrors  145
Clockwork Soldiers  145
Cloud of Death  125
Cloud of Dreamless Slumber  128
Cloud Trapeze  219
Clouds  68
Cockerel Scepter  100
Coin of Meteoritic Iron  111
Cold Blast  121
Cold Bolt  121
Cold damage  66
Cold Resistance  118
Cold Resistant Warriors  118
Combat  57
Combined Paths  74
Combustion  118
Command Draugar  188
Commander orders  45
Communal Chants  79
Communion Master  124
Communion Slave  124
Communions  78
Companion Bracelet  111
Conflagration  118
Confusion  128
Conjure Phantasmal Beast  128
Conjure Phantasmal Knight  128
Conjure Phantasmal Warriors  128
436
[[page 437]]
Conjure Phantasmal Wolves  128
Construct Building  55
Construct Mandragora  149
Construct Manikin  149
Contact Alkonost  167, 186, 203
Contact Allies  54
Contact Angel of the Host  172, 174, 192
Contact Bakeneko  181, 198
Contact Beregina  167, 186, 203
Contact Boar of Carnutes  157
Contact Civateteo  163, 183, 200
Contact Cloud Vila  167, 186, 203
Contact Couatl  163, 165, 183, 185, 200, 
202
Contact Dai Tengu  162, 181, 198
Contact Draconians  142
Contact Forest Giants  149
Contact Forest Trolls  149
Contact Gamayun  167, 186, 203
Contact Harbinger  172, 174, 192
Contact Hesperide  186, 206
Contact Hill Giant  145
Contact Houri  176
Contact Huli Jing  161, 180
Contact Iron Angel  174
Contact Jigami  198
Contact Jinn  176
Contact Jorogumo  181
Contact Kaijin  198
Contact Kitsune  181, 198
Contact Lamia Queen  149
Contact Lamias  149
Contact Lar  156, 172, 190
Contact Leshiy  167, 186, 203
Contact Marid  158
Contact Mori-no-kami  198
Contact Mountain Vila  167, 186, 203
Contact Mujina  181, 198
Contact Nagaraja  178
Contact Nagarishi  178
Contact Nagini  178
Contact Naiad  143
Contact Nushi  162, 181, 198
Contact Onaqui  163, 164, 183, 200, 201
Contact Scorpion Man  157, 159, 165, 
175, 177, 185, 193, 202
Contact Sea Trolls  143
Contact Sirin  167, 186, 203
Contact Tanuki  181, 198
Contact Tatsu  198
Contact Tlahuelpuchi  163, 183, 200
Contact Trolls  145
Contact Void Spectre  207
Contact Yaksha  159, 178, 196
Contact Yakshini  159, 178, 196
Contact Yama-no-kami  198
Control  124
Control the Dead  125
Copper Plate  106
Coral Blade  100
Cornucopia  111
Corpse Candle  125
Corpse Man Construction  142
Corpses  24
Corruption  53
Craft Keledone  155, 170, 186, 189, 206
Crawl  121
Create Revenant  147
Creating a new game  14
Creating a Pretender  31
Creating Pretender  16
Creeping Doom  126
Cross Breeding  230
Crown of Bones  107
Crown of Command  107
Crown of Lead  107
Crown of Overmight  108
Crown of the Elements  108
Crown of the Fire King  108
Crown of the Frost King  108
Crown of the Ivy King  108
Crown of the Magi  108
Crown of the Shah  107
Crown of the Titans  108
Crown of the Whispering Dead  107
Crumble  221
Crusher Construction  145
Crystal Heart  112
Cure Disease  227
Curse  128
Curse of Balor  133
Curse of Blood  153
Curse of Stones  123
Curse of the Desert  121
Curse of the Frog Prince  126
Curse Tablet  238
D
Damage Reversal  130
Dance of Ephemeral Swords  128
Dance of the Morrigans  133
Dancing Shield  111
Dancing Trident  111
Dancing Weapons  64
Dark Knowledge  225
Dark Skies  208
Dark Slumber  235
Darkness  125
Daughter of Typhon  156, 190
Dawn Fang  101
Death of Immortal Pretenders  36
Decay  125
Deceive the Decree of the Lost  205
Decree of the Underworld  131
Defend  51
Defense  24, 25
Definition of participant  78
Demolish Building  55
Demon Bane  103
Demon Cleansing  123
Demon Whip  101
Desiccation  121
Despair  128
Destruction  123
Different Communions  79
Dimensional Rod  102
Dire Wolf Pelt  105
Dirge for the Dead  175
Disciple games  15
Disease Grinder  113
Disenchantment  223
Disintegrate  125
Dispel  223
Dispel mechanics  77
Dispelling global enchantments  77
Displace Body  128
Displaced Warriors  128
Distill Gold  217
Divine Blessing  131
Divine Channeling  132
Divine Magic  32, 81
Divine Name  223
Dogs of Gold and Silver  186
Dome of Arcane Warding  223
437
[[page 438]]
Dome of Corruption  230
Dome of Flaming Death  217
Dome of Misdirection  228
Dome of Seven Seals  223
Dome of Solid Air  219
Dome of the Ancients  113
Dominion  23, 34, 82
Dominion effects  85
Dominion over water  83
Dominion scales  24, 85
Dominion spread  84
Dominion strategy  87
Dominion victory  87
Dominions Random Number (DRN)  13
Doom  124
Doom Glaive  102
Dragon Crown  107
Dragon Helmet  107
Dragon Master  228
Dragon Pretenders  31
Dragon Sceptre  101
Drain Life  125
Draupnir  113
Dream Seduction  53
Dream Spool  111
Dreams of R'lyeh  240
Dreams of the Awakening God  213
Dreamstone  111
Dreamwild Demesne  228
Dreamwild Legion  130
Duskdagger  100
Dust to Dust  125
Dwarven Hammer  100
E
Eagle Eyes  126
Eagle-eyed Warriors  126
Earth Attack  221
Earth Blood Deep Well  210
Earth Boots  109
Earth Gem Alchemy  221
Earth Grip  123
Earth Meld  123
Earth Sense  221
Earth Shatter Army  124
Earth Shatter Hammers  123
Earth-touching Sign  139
Earthquake  123
Earthquake Warriors  123
Effects of Dominion Scales  85
Effigy of War  110
Elemental Armor  106
Elemental Dampening  210
Elemental Fortitude  126
Elemental Opposition of Air  221
Elemental Opposition of Earth  219
Elemental Opposition of Fire  220
Elemental Opposition of Water  217
Elf Bane  100
Elf Shot  128
Elixir of Life  112
Ember  101
Empowerment  74
Encase in Ice  121
Enchanted Barding  114
Enchanted Forests  212
Enchanted Helmet  107
Enchanted Mirror  111
Enchanted Pike  102
Enchanted Ring Mail Armor  105
Enchanted Saddle  114
Enchanted Salt  111
Enchanted Shield  104
Enchanted Spear  100
Enchanted Sword  99
Enchanted Walls  223
End of Culture  215
End of Weakness  134
Endless Bag of Wine  111
Enemy dominion  83
Enfeeble  125
Enlarge  126
Enliven Gargoyles  145
Enliven Granite Guard  173
Enliven Marble Oracle  173
Enliven Sentinel  173
Enliven Statues  145
Enormous Cauldron of Broth  110
Enslave Mind  124
Enslave Sea Trolls  169
Envenom Arrows  126
Ephemeral Blast  128
Ephemeral Bolt  128
Epopteia  238
Eriu  91
Eriu, Last of the Tuatha  317
Ermor and its legacy  91
Ermor, Ashen Empire  310
Ermor, New Faith  248
Ermorian Legion  171
Erytheia, Kingdom of Two Worlds  424
Eternal Pyre  208
Eternal Twilight  213
Ether Gate  223
Ethereal Crossbow  104
Evening Star  101
Extreme heat/cold scales  86
Eye of Aiming  110
Eye of Innocence  112
Eye of the Oracle  113
Eye of the Void  111
Eye Pendant  112
Eye Shield  105
Eyecatcher  100
Eyes of the Condors  236
F
Faerie Court  151
Faery Trod  227
Faithful  100
Falling Fires  118
Falling Frost  121
False damage  68
False Fetters  128
False Fire  128
False Horror  128
Fanaticism  132
Farflight  120
Farflight Arrows  120
Farstrike  123
Fascination  128
Fata Morgana  213
Fate of Oedipus  217
Father Illearth  153
Fatigue  62, 76
Fatigue damage  68
Fatigue distribution  78
Fay Steed Barding  115
Fay-eyed Warriors  128
Fear  71
Fear-not Sign  139
Feast for Ghuls  158, 176
Feast of Flesh  160, 178, 196
Feminie, Sage-Queens  416
438
[[page 439]]
Fenris' Pelt  107
Ferocity  126
Fever Fetish  113
Fields of the Dead  125
Final Rest  131
Fire Blast  118
Fire Bola  104
Fire Brand  101
Fire Cloud  118
Fire damage  66
Fire Darts  118
Fire Fend  118
Fire Flies  118
Fire in a Jar  110
Fire Plate  105
Fire Resistance  121
Fire Resistant Warriors  121
Fire Shield  118
Fire Storm  118
Fire Sword  99
Fireball  118
Fires from Afar  217
Fish Scale Boots  109
Fists of Iron  123
Flambeau  102
Flame Bolt  118
Flame Corpse Construction  191
Flame Eruption  118
Flame Helmet  107
Flame Storm  119
Flame Ward  118
Flameflesh Army  118
Flames from the Sky  217
Flaming Arrows  118
Flare  118
Flask of Holy Water  110
Flesh Eater  100
Flesh Ward  107
Flying Carpet  111
Flying Ointment  110
Flying Shards  123
Flying Shield  123
Fog Warriors  120
Fomoria and Tir na n'Og  92
Fomoria, The Cursed Ones  252
Forces of Darkness  153
Forces of Ice  153
Forest Dome  227
Forest Troll Tribe  149
Forge Brass Bull  155, 169, 170, 186, 189, 
206
Forge of the Ancients  210
Forgotten Palace  228
Formations  59
Fort of the Ancients  235, 238
Fortress statistics  26
Fortress types  25
Forts  25
Foul Air  211
Foul Vapors  126
Fountain of Youth  113
Freeze  121
Freezing Mist  121
Freezing Touch  121
Friendly Currents  121
Frighten  125
From Death Comes Life  238
Frost Brand  100
Frost Dome  220
Frost Fend  121
Frostflesh Army  121
Frozen Heart  121
Furious Warriors  118
Fury of the Wild  126
G
Gaia's Blessing  128
Gale Gate  208
Game settings  16
Game Tools  18
Garrison units  43
Gate Cleaver  103
Gate Stone  113
Gates of Horn and Ivory  213
Gateway  223
Gath, Last of the Giants  395
Geas  133, 136, 138
General orders  44, 46
General rules governing movement  47
Geoglyphs  236
Geyser  121
Ghost General  162, 181, 198
Ghost Grip  125
Ghost Riders  147
Ghost Ship Armada  209
Ghost Wolves  128
Giant Strength Warriors  123
Giant Warriors  126
Gift of Cat Eyes  126
Gift of Cheated Fate  124
Gift of Displacement  128
Gift of Flight  120
Gift of Formlessness  121
Gift of Giant Strength  123
Gift of Health  212
Gift of Nature's Bounty  212
Gift of Reason  227
Gift of Spirit Sight  124
Gift of Splendor  128
Gift of the First Soul  134, 137, 140
Gift of the Fourth Soul  134, 137, 140
Gift of the Furies  118
Gift of the Hare  126
Gift of the Moon  139
Gift of the Sacred Swamp  138
Gift of the Second Soul  134, 137, 140
Gift of the Serpent  126
Gift of the Third Soul  134, 137, 140
Gift of True Sight  128
Gifts from Heaven  123
Gigantomachia  215, 216
Girdle of Might  111
Global Enchantments  77, 208
Gloves of the Gladiator  102
Gnome Lore  221
God Brood  185
God-Slayer Spear  100
Golden Arbalest  104
Golden Barding  115
Golden Hoplon  105
Golem Construction  147
Gooey Water  121
Gossamer Barding  114
Gossamer Cloth  110
Gossamer Gown  105
Gossamer Veil  107
Grand Communions  78
Great Lamentation  171
Greater Farflight  120
Greater Hannya Pact  233
Greatsword of Sharpness  102
Green Dragon Scale Mail  106
Grip of Winter  121
Ground Army  123
439
[[page 440]]
Group Barkskin  126
Group Blur  128
Group Ironskin  123
Group Luck  128
Group Regeneration  126
Group Stoneskin  123
Grow Fortress  232, 234, 237
Growing Fury  126
Guardians of the Deep  209
Gust of Winds  120
H
Hail of Burning Embers  118
Hail of Serpent Fangs  126
Halberd of Might  102
Hall of Statues  173
Hall of the Dead  191
Hammer of the Forge Lord  103
Hammer of the Mountains  102
Hand of Death  125
Hand of Dust  125
Handful of Acorns  110
Hannya Pact  233
Harassed  62
Hardwood Club  100
Harm  130
Haruspex  227
Harvest Blade  103
Harvester of Sorrows  147
Haste  126
Haunted Forest  212
Headband of Woven Dreams  108
Headdress of the Bull  107
Heal  126
Healing Light  124
Healing Touch  126
Heart Finder Sword  100
Heat from Hell  118
Heat/Cold scale variability  86
Heavenly Choir  172, 174, 192
Heavenly Fire  131
Heavenly Fires  161
Heavenly Rivers  161
Heavenly Strike  131
Heavenly Wrath  172, 174, 192
Helheim, Dusk and Death  289
Hell Power  130
Hell Ride  230
Hell Sword  103
Hellbind Heart  130
Hellfire  130
Hellscape  233, 236, 239
Helmet of Heroes  107
Helmet of Perfection  108
Helmet of the Dawn  108
Herald Lance  100
Herd of Buffaloes  159, 161, 177, 180, 
198
Herd of Elephants  166, 185, 194
Herd of Morvarc'h  188
Herd of Unicorns  173, 191
Heretics  85
Heroic abilities  41
Hidden Flame  118
Hidden in Sand  145
Hidden in Snow  143
Hidden Underneath  145
Hide  54
Hinnom, Ashdod and Gath  91
Hinnom, Sons of the Fallen  265
Hit locations  61
Hitting mounted units  64
Holger the Head  113
Holy Avenger  131
Holy Pyre  136, 139
Holy Scourge  102
Holy Word  131
Homunculus  111
Horde from Hell  153
Horde of Skeletons  125
Horn of Storms  111
Horn of Valor  111
Horned Helmet  107
Horrible Visage  128
Horror Helmet  107
Horror Mark  124
Horror Seed  230
Host of Ganas  160, 178, 196
How forts collect resources  26
Howl  126
Huaca Headdress  108
Hunter's Knife  100
Hurricane  219
Hydra Skin Armor  106
Hydrophobia  118
I
Ice Aegis  105
Ice Helmet  107
Ice Lance  99
Ice Mist Scimitar  100
Ice Pebble Staff  102
Ice Shield  121
Ice Strike  121
Ice Sword  99
Ice Walls  220
Ignite Arrows  118
Igor Könhelm's Tome  113
Illusory Army  128
Illusory Attack  151
Illwinter  215, 216
Immaculate Fort  228
Immaculate Mounts  126
Immaculate Shield  105
Immobile Pretenders  31
Immolation  118
Immortal Pretenders  31
Imp Familiar  110
Implementor Axe  102
Imprint Souls  223
Improved Cross Breeding  230
Incinerate  118
Income  22
Increasing your dominion  83
Ind and its successors  92
Ind, Magnificent Kingdom of Exalted 
Virtue  335
Indirect Magic  74
Infernal Breeding  233, 236, 239
Infernal Circle  230
Infernal Crusade  153
Infernal Disease  230
Infernal Forces  153
Infernal Fumes  230
Infernal Prison  130
Infernal Sword  103
Infernal Tempest  153
Infiltrate  54
Initiation of combat.  49
Inner Furnace  133, 136, 139
Inner Sun  217
Inquisitor bonus  85
Instill Uprising  54
Internal Alchemy  233, 236, 239
440
[[page 441]]
Interrupts  75
Introduction  6
Invisibility  128
Invulnerability  125
Iron Bane  123
Iron Blizzard  136, 139
Iron Corpse Reanimation  191
Iron Darts  136, 139
Iron Dragon  145
Iron Face  108
Iron Gryphon  141
Iron Marionettes  139
Iron Pigs  145
Iron Walls  221
Iron Warriors  123
Iron Will  123
Ironskin  123
Ivory Bow  104
Ivy Crown  107
J
Jade Armor  106
Jade Knife  100
Jellyberd  103
Jinn Bottle  112
Jomon, Human Daimyos  401
Jotunheim, Iron Woods  359
Juggernaut Construction  147
Just Man's Cross  104
K
Kailasa, Rise of the Ape Kings  271
Katabasis  238
King of Banefires  147
King of Elemental Earth  145
King of Elemental Fire  141
Kithaironic Lion Pelt  105
Knife of the Damned  100
Knight's Barding  115
Krupp's Bracers  113
Ktonian Legion  191
L
Laboratories  28
Lacerating Winds  120
Lamentation  171
Land of the Ever Young  228
Lanka, Land of Demons  272
Lantern Shield  105
Launch Options  430
Lead Shield  104
Leech  130
Leeching Darkness  125
Leeching Touch  130
Legendary Spells  80
Legion of Wights  147
Legion's Demise  130
Legions of Steel  123
Lemuria, Soul Gates  380
Leprosy  225
Lesser Flame Ward  118
Lesser Thunder Ward  120
Lesser Winter Ward  121
Level bonus  78
Leviathan  147
Levitate  120
Levitate Soldiers  120
Lichcraft  225
Lictorian Guard  171
Lictorian Legion  171
Life after Death  125
Life Drain damage  67
Life for a Life  130
Lifelong Protection  111
Light of the Northern Star  124
Lightless Lantern  112
Lightning Bolt  120
Lightning Field  121
Lightning Resistance  123
Lightning Resistant Warriors  123
Lightning Rod  102
Lightning Spear  100
Lightweight Cataphract Barding  115
Lightweight Scale Mail  105
Limited legendary spell research rate  16
Limited unique artifact forging rate  16
Lion Sentinels  221
Liquid Body  121
Liquid Flames of Rhuax  133, 136, 139
Liquify  121
Living Castle  227
Living Clouds  120
Living Earth  123
Living Fire  118
Living Mercury  157, 173, 180
Living Water  121
Locust Swarms  227
Lodestone Amulet  110
Long lasting battles and Twilight  71
Lore of Legends  228
Lost Land  221
Luck  128
Lucky Coin  104
Lure of the Deep  213
Lure of the sirens  53
Lychantropos' Amulet  111
M
Mace of Eruption  100
Machaka  92
Machaka, Lion Kings  284
Machaka, Reign of Sorcerors  352
Maelstrom  209
Mage Bane  101
Maggots  126
Magic  32, 73
Magic beings and undead  70
Magic Duel  124
Magic fear effects  70
Magic gem inventory  24, 46
Magic Gems  79
Magic Items  80, 99
Magic Sites  28
Magma Bolts  123
Magma Eruption  123
Main Gauche of Parrying  100
Maintain Siege  52
Major Changes in Dominions 6  12
Man  93
Man, Tower of Avalon  315
Man, Towers of Chelms  381
Managing your magic resources  79
Manifest Vitriol  143
Manifestation  225
Manikin Reanimation  54
Manual Dominions 6  1
Manual of Water Breathing  111
Marble Armor  106
Marble Army  123
Marble Warriors  123
Marignon  93
Marignon, Conquerors of the Sea  387
Marignon, Fiery Justice  323
Marverni  93
441
[[page 442]]
Marverni, Time of Druids  256
Mask of Face-borrowing  108
Mass Confusion  128
Mass Flight  120
Mass Regeneration  126
Master Enslave  125
Master password  16
Master's Athame  101
Maws of the Earth  123
Maximum dominion  83
Mechanical Men  145
Mechanical Militia  210
Medallion of Vengeance  111
Meditation Sign  140
Mekone & Phlegra  93
Mekone, Brazen Giants  245
Melancholia  221
Melee attack resolution  63
Melee combat  60
Memories of Stone  195
Mend the Dead  135
Mercenaries  29
Mercury Barrel  112
Mercybrand  100
Messenger Crows  219
Meteor Shower  123
Miasma  227
Mictlan  84, 93
Mictlan, Blood and Rain  403
Mictlan, Reign of Blood  279
Mictlan, Reign of the Lawgiver  346
Midgård, Age of Men  409
Midget Masher  102
Midget's Revenge  113
Mind Blank  128
Mind Burn  124
Mind Hunt  223
Mind Vessel  235
Mindless units  70
Miraculous Cure All Elixir  111
Mirage  228
Mirage Bola  104
Mirage Crystal  112
Mirror Armor  105
Mirror Image  128
Mirror Mind  128
Mirror of Earth's Memories  232
Mirror of False Impressions  112
Mirror of Long Lost Battles  105
Mirror of Trapped Images  111
Mirror Walk  239
Missile combat  65
Mist  120
Mistform  120
Mistletoe Garland  107
Mists of Deception  128
Monolith Armor  107
Monster Boar  231, 232, 235, 238
Moon Blade  103
Moonvine Bracelet  112
Morale  69
Morale and rout  69
Morale bonuses  69
Morale check  70
Morale, magic bonus  69
Mossbody  126
Mother Oak  212
Mounted Units  64
Mounted units and magic items  64
Mounted units and morale  64
Mounts  52
Move  50
Move and Patrol  51
Movement  47
Multiple attacks  63
Multiple weapons  63
Murdering Winter  220
Muspelheim, Sons of Fire  294
N
Na'Ba and Ubar  94
Na'Ba, Queens of the Desert  331
Naiad Warriors  143
Nation Index  241
National summary  24
Nazca  94
Nazca, Kingdom of the Sun  344
Nest of Asps  126
Nest of Salamanders  118
Nether Bolt  124
Nether Darts  124
Nethgul  113
Neverending Keg of Mead  111
Nexus Gate  223
Nidavangr  94
Nidavangr, Bear, Wolf and Crow  361
Niefel Flames  122
Niefelheim, Sons of Winter  293
Nightfall  128
Nightmare Construction  191
Nightmare Masks  128
O
O'al Kan's Sceptre  101
Oaken Army  126
Oceania, Coming of the Capricorns  298
Oceania, Mermidons  367
Oceania, Pelagia, and Erytheia  94
Olm Conclave  173
Opposition  124
Oppressors Headband  107
Orb Lightning  120
Orb of Atlantis  113
Orb of Elemental Air  113
Orb of Elemental Earth  113
Orb of Elemental Fire  113
Orb of Elemental Water  113
Ordeal by Fire  208
Orders  50
Orgy  190
Other Rituals  217
Owl Quill  110
P
Pack Ferocity  126
Pack of Wolves  149
Pain Transfer  130
Pale Riders  147
Pangaea  95
Pangaea, Age of Bronze  306
Pangaea, Age of Revelry  246
Pangaea, New Era  377
Panic  126
Paralysis damage  67
Paralyze  124
Parting of the Soul  134, 137, 139
Patala, Reign of the Nagas  397
Path Boosters  116
Patrol  50
Pebble Skin Suit  107
Pelagia, Pearl Kings  296
Pelagia, Triton Kings  365
Pendant of Beauty  111
Pendant of Courage  110
442
[[page 443]]
Pendant of Luck  110
Percival the Pocket Knight  113
Perform Blood Sacrifice  54
Perpetual Storm  208
Personal Barkskin  126
Personal Flight  120
Personal Ironskin  123
Personal Luck  128
Personal Mistform  120
Personal Poison Resistance  126
Personal Regeneration  126
Personal Stoneskin  123
Petrify  123
Phaeacia  95
Phaeacia, Isle of the Dark Ships  354
Phlegmatia  220
Phlegra, Deformed Giants  305
Phlegra, Sleeping Giants  375
Phoenix Power  118
Phoenix Pyre  118
Physical form  31
Piconye, Legacy of the Prester King  418
Picus's Axe of Rulership  101
Piercer  104
Pillage  53
Pillar of Fire  118
Pills of Water Breathing  111
Pixie Shoes  109
Pixie Spear  100
Plague  125
Plague of Locusts  153
Playing a hotseat game  18
Playing a multiplayer game  18
Playing a network game  18
Playing the Game  18
Pocket Ship  112
Poison Arrows  126
Poison Cloud  126
Poison damage  66
Poison Darts  126
Poison Golem  147
Poison Mist  126
Poison Touch  126
Poison Ward  126
Polymorph  126
Population  22
Power of the Grave  140
Power of the Reborn King  140
Power of the Sepulchre  136
Power of the Shadelands  139
Power of the Spheres  124
Preach  53
Preaching the Word of God  84
Pretender and prophet hit points  86
Pretender death  36
Pride of Lions  149
Prison of Fire  118
Prison of Sedna  121
Probabilities in Dominions 6  13
Procas's Axe of Rulership  101
Procession of the Underworld  155, 169, 
170, 189
Profuse bleeding  66
Project Self  228
Protection from Cold  121
Protection from Fire  118
Protection from Lightning  120
Protection from Poison  126
Protection of the Grave  140
Protection of the Sepulchre  135, 136
Protection of the Shadelands  138
Protection vs global enchantments  78
Protective Winds  120
Proud Steed  126
Province attributes  21
Province Defense  29
Pull from the Grave  131
Puppet Mastery  135
Purgatory  208
Purify Blood  131
Purifying Water  131
Purple Silk Garments  105
Pyrène  95
Pyrène, Cambion Kings  422
Pyrène, Kingdom of the Bekrydes  259
Pyrène, Time of the Akelarre  325
Pyre of Catharsis  217
Pythium  95
Pythium, Emerald Empire  313
Pythium, Serpent Cult  378
Q
Quagmire  121
Queen of Elemental Air  142
Queen of Elemental Water  143
Quick Roots  135
Quicken Self  121
Quickening  121
Quickness  121
R
R'lyeh and Atlantis  96
R'lyeh, Dreamlands  428
R'lyeh, Fallen Star  371
R'lyeh, Time of Aboleths  301
Rabbit Foot Charm  109
Rage  118
Rage of the Cornered Rat  126
Ragha  95
Ragha, Dual Kingdom  391
Raging Hearts  217
Raid  53
Rain  121
Rain of Jaguars  163, 164, 183, 200, 201
Rain of Stones  123
Rain of Toads  230
Rainbow Armor  106
Raise Dead  125
Raise Skeletons  125
Ranger's Boots  109
Ranger's Cloak  105
Rat Tail  100
Raven Feast  219
Raw Hide Shield  104
Reanimate  53
Reanimate Ancestor  191
Reanimate Archers  147
Reanimation  147
Reascendance  192
Reawaken Fossil  193
Recruiting units  42
Recruitment costs  42
Recruitment Points  22
Recruitment restrictions  42
Red Dragon Scale Mail  106
Regeneration  126
Regrowth  135
Reinvigoration  130
Rejuvenate  230
Release Lord of Civilization  158, 177, 
205
Relief  126
Remnants in the Depths  211
Renaming  16
443
[[page 444]]
Repel  62
Rerecruiting mounted units  65
Research  80
Resist Cold  118
Resist Fire  121
Resist Lightning  123
Resist Magic  124
Resources  22
Retreating when besieged  73
Retreats  72
Return of the Past  131
Returning  124
Revive Acolyte  171
Revive Arch Bishop  171
Revive Bane  147
Revive Bane Lord  147
Revive Bishop  171
Revive Cavern Wights  157
Revive Censor  171
Revive Dusk Elder  171
Revive Grand Lemur  190
Revive Grave Consort  202
Revive King  147
Revive Lemur Acolyte  190
Revive Lemur Centurion  190
Revive Lemur Consul  190
Revive Lemur Senator  190
Revive Lemur Thaumaturg  190
Revive Lictor  171
Revive Shadow Tribune  190
Revive Spectator  171
Revive Tomb King  202
Revive Tomb Priest  202
Revive Wailing Lady  171
Revive Wights  147
Rewrite Fate  124
Rhapsody of Life  138
Rhapsody of the Dead  138
Rhuax Pact  157, 173
Riches from Beneath  210
Rider skill  64
Rigor Mortis  125
Rime Hammer  103
Rime Hauberk  106
Ring of Fire  109
Ring of Frost  109
Ring of Invisibility  112
Ring of Levitation  110
Ring of Regeneration  111
Ring of Returning  112
Ring of Sorcery  112
Ring of Tamed Lightning  109
Ring of the False Prophet  112
Ring of the Warrior  110
Ring of Warning  110
Ring of Water Breathing  110
Ring of Wizardry  112
Ritual of Five Gates  153
Ritual of Rebirth  225
Ritual of Returning  223
Rituals  76
Robe of Calius the Druid  107
Robe of Invulnerability  106
Robe of Missile Protection  105
Robe of Shadows  106
Robe of the Magi  106
Robe of the Sea  106
Rod of Death  101
Rod of the Leper King  100
Rod of the Phoenix  101
Rout  69
Rout effects  70
Royal Power  140
Royal Protection  140
Rune Smasher  100
Rus, Sons of Heaven  291
Rush of Strength  130
Rust  67
Rust Mist  123
S
Sabbath Master  130
Sabbath Slave  130
Sacred Crocodile  165, 185, 202
Sacred Wind  131
Sailors' Death  121
Salamander Silk Garments  106
Sandals of the Crane  109
Sandman's Blessing  128
Sanguine Dowsing Rod  111
Sanguine Heritage  191
Sanguinia  219
Sauromatia  96
Sauromatia, Amazon Queens  250
Scale Walls  52
Scales  34
Scapegoats  166, 195
Sceleria and Lemuria  96
Sceleria, The Reformed Empire  311
Sceptre of Authority  100
Sceptre of Corruption  101
Sceptre of Dark Regency  101
School of Sharks  121
Scorching Wind  133, 137
Score graphs  16
Scorpion Crown  108
Scouting and Scrying  30
Scrying Pool  220
Scutata Volturnus  105
Sea King's Court  143
Sea King's Goblet  112
Sea of Ice  209
Second Sight  124
Second Sun  208
Seduction  53
Seeking Arrow  219
Seith Curse  234, 237, 240
Send Aatxe  232, 235
Send Bukavac  167, 186, 203
Send Dream Horror  230
Send Horror  153
Send Lady Midday  234, 237, 240
Send Lesser Horror  153
Send Tupilak  240
Send Vodyanoy  167, 186, 203
Serenity  121
Sermon of Courage  131
Serpent Fang Arrows  126
Serpent Kryss  100
Serpent's Blessing  126
Seven Year Fever  126
Shademail Haubergeon  106
Shadow Blast  125
Shadow Bolt  125
Shadow Brand  101
Shadow Servant  147
Shadow Warriors  128
Shaman's Staff  102
Shambler Skin Armor  105
Shark Attack  121
Shatter  123
Shield destruction  61
Shield of Gleaming Gold  105
Shield of Meteoritic Iron  104
444
[[page 445]]
Shield of the Accursed  105
Shield of the Dawn  105
Shield of Valor  104
Shillelagh  100
Shimmering Fields  128
Shinuyama, Land of the Bakemono  340
Shock damage  67
Shock Trident  102
Shock Wave  120
Shocking Grasp  120
Shrink  126
Shroud of Bewilderment  128
Shroud of Flying Shards  123
Shroud of Splendor  128
Shroud of the Battle Saint  106
Siege Golem  145
Sieges  71
Silent Boots  109
Silver Hauberk  106
Silver Silk Garments  107
Simulacrum  228
Singing Sword  101
Skeletal Body  125
Skeletal Legion  125
Skull Mentor  111
Skull of Fire  112
Skull Staff  102
Skull Standard  102
Skull Talisman  109
Skullface  108
Sky Metal Matrix  111
Slave Collar  110
Slave Matrix  111
Slave's Heart  111
Sleep  128
Sleep Ray  128
Sleep Vines  135
Slime  121
Sling of Accuracy  104
Sling of Crystal Shards  104
Sloth of Bears  157
Slow  121
Slumber  128
Smasher  100
Smite  131
Smite Demon  131
Smokeless Flame  133, 137
Snake Bladder Stick  100
Snake Ring  109
Sneak  50
Soaring Army  121
Solar Brilliance  124
Solar Eclipse  118
Solar Rays  124
Soldiers of Steel  123
Soul Contract  110
Soul Drain  124
Soul Scales  112
Soul Slay  124
Soul Transaction  130
Soul Vortex  125
Soulstone of the Wolves  113
Sounder of Boars  157
Sow Dragon Teeth  132, 134, 135, 137, 
138, 140
Spear of the Morrigan  100
Special abilities  38
Special damage  66
Special Dominions  87
Specific orders  46
Spell Focus  111
Spell Ward  124
Spider Amulet  111
Spirit Curse  125
Spirit Helmet  108
Spirit Mask  107
Spirit Mastery  147
Spirits of the Wood  149
Squads  43
Staff of Corrosion  102
Staff of Elemental Mastery  103
Staff of Flame Focus  102
Staff of Storms  103
Standard of the Damned  103
Star Fires  124
Star of Darkness  100
Star of Heroes  100
Star of Thraldom  101
Starfire Staff  100
Starshine Skullcap  108
Starting a Game  14
Starvation  24
Steal Breath  120
Steal Sight  128
Steel Slice Warriors  123
Stellar Cascades  124
Stellar Decree  131
Stellar Focus  211
Stellar Strike  223
Stinger  100
Stone Birds  110
Stone Idol  112
Stone Sphere  111
Stoneskin  123
Storm  120
Storm Castle  52
Storm of Thorns  126
Storm Spool  111
Storm Wind  120
Storming a castle  72
Strands of Arcane Power  211
Strange Fire  137, 139
Stream of Life  126
Streams from Hades  143
Strength of Gaia  126
Strength of Giants  123
Stygian Paths  225
Stygian Rains  125
Stygian Skin  125
Stymphalian Wings  106
Sulphur Haze  118
Summer Sword  100
Summon Abysian Ancestors  193
Summon Air Elemental  120
Summon Aka-Oni  181, 198
Summon Amphiptere  142
Summon Angiri  159, 178, 196
Summon Animals  149
Summon Ao-Oni  181, 198
Summon Apsaras  159, 178, 196
Summon Araburu-kami  162
Summon Asp Turtle  143
Summon Asrapas  160, 178, 196
Summon Balam  164, 185, 201
Summon Barghests  156, 173, 191
Summon Bean Sidhe  191
Summon Bears  167
Summon Binn  158, 176
Summon Bishop Fish  143
Summon Black Dogs  156, 173, 191
Summon Bluecap  151
Summon Bog Beasts  149
Summon Calydonian Boar  149
Summon Catoblepas  143
445
[[page 446]]
Summon Cave Cows  143
Summon Cave Crab  145
Summon Cave Drake  145
Summon Cave Grubs  145
Summon Cave Kobolds  151
Summon Chaac  164, 185, 201
Summon Condors  183
Summon Crocodiles  149
Summon Cu Sidhe  157, 173, 191
Summon Dai Oni  181, 198
Summon Daitya  160, 178, 196
Summon Dakini  160, 178, 196
Summon Daktyl  188, 206
Summon Danavas  160, 178, 196
Summon Devala  159, 178, 196
Summon Devata  159, 178, 196
Summon Dwarf of the Four Directions  
166, 167, 168, 186, 188, 203, 204
Summon Earth Elemental  123
Summon Earthpower  123
Summon Ether Warriors  147
Summon Fall Bears  145
Summon Fay Folk  151
Summon Fay Footfolk  151
Summon Fay Knights  151
Summon Fay Prince  151
Summon Fire Ants  141
Summon Fire Drake  141
Summon Fire Elemental  118
Summon Fire Snakes  141
Summon Firebird  167, 186, 203
Summon Flame Jellies  141
Summon Flame Spirit  141
Summon Gandharvas  159, 178, 196
Summon Garudas  159, 178
Summon Ghosts  147
Summon Ghulah  158, 176
Summon Glosos  168, 188, 204
Summon Gnome  151
Summon Gozu Mezu  162, 181, 198
Summon Great Eagles  142
Summon Gryphons  142
Summon Hawk  120
Summon Hekateride  188, 206
Summon Hinn  158, 176
Summon Horned Serpents  149
Summon Hound of Twilight  155, 169, 
170, 186, 189, 206
Summon Huacas  183
Summon Ice Drake  143
Summon Ifrit  176
Summon Illearth  130
Summon Imps  130
Summon Incubus  206
Summon Jade Serpents  163, 183, 185, 
200, 201
Summon Jaguar Toads  163, 183, 185, 
200, 201
Summon Jaguars  163, 164, 183, 200, 201
Summon Jinn Warriors  176
Summon Kappa  162, 198
Summon Karasu Tengus  162, 181, 198
Summon Kenzoku  198
Summon Killer Mantis  149
Summon Kimpurushas  159, 178, 196
Summon Kinnara  159, 178, 196
Summon Kithaironic Lion  149
Summon Ko-Oni  181, 198
Summon Konoha Tengus  162, 181, 198
Summon Kuro-Oni  181, 198
Summon Kusarikkus  159, 177
Summon Lammashtas  125
Summon Leogryphs  149
Summon Lesser Air Elemental  120
Summon Lesser Earth Elemental  123
Summon Lesser Fire Elemental  118
Summon Lesser Water Elemental  121
Summon Likho  167, 186, 203
Summon Lilot  158, 166, 175, 195
Summon Mandeha  160, 178, 196
Summon Manticores  149
Summon Marid  176
Summon Maruts  159, 178, 196
Summon Mazzikim  158, 166, 175, 195
Summon Monster Fish  169, 189, 206
Summon Monster Toad  163, 183, 185, 
200, 201
Summon Monster Toads  165, 185
Summon Morrigan  156
Summon Mound Fiend  147
Summon Nagas  178
Summon Ogres  145
Summon Okami  181, 198
Summon Omukade  181
Summon Oni  181, 198
Summon Oni General  181, 198
Summon Penumbrals  173, 191
Summon Rakshasa Warriors  160, 178, 
196
Summon Rakshasas  160, 178, 196
Summon Rimvaettir  168, 188
Summon Rudra  159, 178, 196
Summon Rusalka  167, 186, 203
Summon Sacred Scorpion  164, 201
Summon Samanishada  160, 178, 196
Summon Sandhyabalas  160, 178, 196
Summon Se'irim  158, 175
Summon Sea Dogs  149
Summon Sea Lions  149
Summon Sea Serpent  143
Summon Shade Beasts  147
Summon Shades  147
Summon Shaytan  176
Summon Shedim  158, 166, 175, 195
Summon Shikome  162
Summon Si'lat  158, 176
Summon Siddha  159, 178, 196
Summon Simargl  167, 186, 203
Summon Spectral Infantry  157, 175
Summon Spectre  147
Summon Spine Frog  149
Summon Spring Hawks  142
Summon Sprites  128
Summon Storm Drake  142
Summon Storm Power  120
Summon Succubus  206
Summon Summer Lions  141
Summon Supayas  183
Summon Swamp Drake  149
Summon Telkhine  166, 169
Summon Tlaloque  163, 183, 200
Summon Ugallu  159, 177
Summon Ujigami  198
Summon Umbrals  173, 191
Summon Valkyries  134, 137, 140
Summon Vetalas  160, 178, 196
Summon Vidyadhara  159, 178, 196
Summon Water Elemental  121
Summon Water Kobold  151
Summon Water Power  121
Summon Winter Wolves  143
Summon Wyverns  142
Summon Yazatas  163, 183, 194
Summon Yetis  143
446
[[page 447]]
Summon Zmey  167, 186, 203
Summoning Rituals  141
Sun Slayer  103
Sunrise Barding  116
Supplies  23
Supply  25
Supply during sieges  72
Supply Usage  23
Swarm  126
Sword of Injustice  101
Sword of Justice  103
Sword of Sharpness  100
Sword of Swiftness  100
Sword of the Five Elements  100
Syllable of Death  131
T
T'ien Ch'i  96
T'ien Ch'i, Barbarian Kings  399
T'ien Ch'i, Imperial Bureaucracy  338
T'ien Ch'i, Spring and Autumn  274
Tablecloth of Marvelous Feasts  110
Tangle Thicket  126
Tangle Vines  126
Tapestry of Dreams  228
Target orders  45
Tartarian Gate  225
Taurobolium  238
Teaching Sign  139
Teleport  223
Teleport Gems  223
Teleport Item  223
Telestic Animation  147
Temper Armors  123
Temper Flesh  123
Tempering the Will  136, 139
Tempest  103
Temples  28
Terracotta Army  141
Terrain  21
Terror  125
The Aegis  105
The Ankh  113
The Ark  113
The Astral Harpoon  113
The Awakening  36
The Basics  13
The Black Book of Secrets  113
The Black Heart  112
The Black Mirror  113
The Boots of Calius the Druid  109
The Chalice  113
The Copper Arm  112
The Crown of Despair  108
The Crown of Pure Blood  108
The Death Globes  113
The Eyes of God  211
The First Anvil  113
The First Crown  108
The Flailing Hands  103
The Flying Ship  113
The Forbidden Light  113
The Gift of Kurgi  113
The Green Eye  113
The Heart of Life  111
The Heart of Quickness  112
The Horror Harmonica  113
The Interface  14
The Jade Mask  108
The Kindly Ones  208
The Looming Hell  214
The Magic Lamp  113
The Manual of Cross Breeding  113
The Map  20
The Missing Tune  113
The Oath Rod of Kurgi  103
The Origins of Nations  89
The Paths of Magical Power  73
The Pebble Pouch  104
The Pretender  30
The Protection of Geryon  113
The Quintessence Chest  114
The Ravenous Swarm  126
The Ruby Eye  113
The Schools of Magical Research  73
The Sharpest Tooth  101
The Sickle whose Crop is Pain  101
The Silver Arms  113
The Staff from the Sun  103
The Stone Sword  103
The Summit  101
The Sword of Aurgelmer  101
The Sword of Many Colors  103
The Tartarian Chains  101
The Tome of Gaia  113
The Trapped Dreams of Hruvur  113
The Void Sphere  113
The Wrath of God  211
Theft of the Sun  215
Therodos  96
Therodos, Telkhine Spectre  299
Thetis' Blessing  209
Thistle Mace  100
Thorn Spear  100
Thorn Staff  102
Thousand Year Ginseng  236
Three Red Seconds  230
Throne game settings  17
Throne settings  17
Thunder Bow  104
Thunder Fend  120
Thunder Strike  120
Thunder Ward  120
Thunder Whip  100
Thunderstorm  219
Tidal Wave  220
Time Stop  124
Tir na n'Og, Land of the Ever Young  254
Tome of High Power  113
Tome of Legends  113
Tome of the Forgotten Masons  113
Tome of the Lower Planes  113
Torpor  126
Totem Shield  105
Touch of Madness  126
Toy Sword  100
Trade Wind  219
Transformation  227
Transmute Fire  217
Treelord's Staff  103
Trident from Beyond  103
Trinities  32
Troll King's Court  145
True Sight  128
Trueshot  120
Trueshot Longbow  104
Trueshot Warriors  120
Tune of Dancing Death  133, 135, 138
Tune of Fear  133, 135, 138
Tune of Growth  133, 135, 138
Turn resolution sequence  55
Twiceborn  225
Twilight  128
Twilight Glaive  103
447
[[page 448]]
Twin Spear  101
Twist Fate  124
Types of spells  75
U
Ubar, Kingdom of the Unseen  267
Ulm  97
Ulm, Black Forest  383
Ulm, Enigma of Steel  258
Ulm, Forges of Ulm  321
Unconsciousness  62
Undead Mastery  126
Unending Nightmare  128
Unholy Blessing  135, 136, 138
Unholy Command  135, 136, 138
Unholy Power  135, 136, 138
Unholy Protection  135, 136, 138
Unit classes  40
Unit Inventories  46
Units  37
Unleash Imprisoned Ones  232
Unquenched Sword  101
Unraveling  124
Unrest  23, 29
Unseen Sword  100
Ur and Uruk  97
Ur, The First City  269
Uruk, City States  333
Using magic gems in combat  79
Utgård, Well of Urd  412
Utterdark  211
V
Vaettiheim, Wolf Kin Jarldom  414
Vafur Flames  217
Vajra  101
Vanarus, Land of the Chuds  357
Vanheim, Age of Vanir  288
Vanheim, Arrival of Man  356
Vanheim, Helheim, Niefelheim, 
Muspelheim, Jotunheim, Midgård, and 
Utgård  97
Veil of Perpetual Mists  228
Vengeance of the Dead  228
Vengeful Vines  135
Vengeful Water  209
Venomous Death  126
Vermin Feast  227
Vile Water  143
Vine Arrow  126
Vine Bow  104
Vine Shield  105
Vine Whip  100
Vision's Foe  104
Visions of Death  128
Voice of Apsu  220
Voice of Tiamat  220
Void Pattern Labyrinth  223
Volcanic Eruption  217
Vortex of Returning  124
Vortex of Unlife  125
W
Wailing Winds  128
Wall Shaker  111
Wand of Wild Fire  100
Warrior Illusion  128
Warriors of the Dawn  128
Watcher  142
Water Bracelet  112
Water Lens  111
Water Shield  121
Water Strike  121
Water Ward  121
Watery Death  131
Wave Breaker  103
Wave Warriors  121
Weakness  125
Weapon types  61
Weapons of Sharpness  123
Weather  72
Weavers of the Wood  234, 237
Web  126
Weightless Kite Shield  104
Weightless Scale Mail  106
Weightless Tower Shield  104
Welcome Sign  139
Well of Misery  211
Whip of Command  100
Whispers of the Wild  227
White Dragon Scale Mail  106
Wild Growth  126
Wild Hunt  213
Wildness  126
Will o' the Wisp  118
Will of the Fates  124
Wind Guide  120
Wind of Death  125
Wind Ride  219
Windcatcher Sail  111
Windrunner  120
Winds of Arcane Drought  208
Winged Helmet  107
Winged Monkeys  227
Winged Shoes  109
Winter Bringer  101
Winter Ward  121
Winter's Call  188, 204
Winter's Chill  121
Wish  223
Witches' Ointment  110
Wither Bones  125
Wizard's Tower  221
Wolven Winter  220
Wondrous Box of Monsters  113
Wooden Construction  149
Wooden Warriors  126
Word of Bewilderment  131
Word of Power  131
Word of Stone  131
Word of Thorns  131
Wound Fend Amulet  110
Woundflame  101
Wraith Crown  108
Wraith Sword  102
Wrath of Pazuzu  230
Wrath of the Ancestors  133, 134, 139
Wrath of the Sea  209
Wrathful Skies  120
Wyrmskin Boots  109
X
Xibalba  98
Xibalba, Flooded Caves  348
Xibalba, Return of the Zotz  405
Xibalba, Vigil of the Sun  280
XP: Experience points  41
Y
Yomi, Oni Kings  276
Yomi, Shinuyama and Jomon  98
Ys  98
Ys, Morgen Queens  363
448
[[page 449]]
Z
Ziz  147
449